@TITLE=What Kind Of A Year?
@BODY=Two weeks from now we observe a traditionally solemn day of the family - Christmas. A week after that and we're in the midst of a ritual national celebration - New Year's. 1962 will be over then. But, was it a year of no consequence, or will it be remembered and extended into the future?

A year in the history of man can not really be qualified in the present: one has to wait for a decade, a century to see what its lasting effects were.

Nothing really significant was concluded this part year nor can one say that 1962 marked the start of any revolutionary change. But it did introduce some new phrases, particularly on the political level, that could be of importance in 1963 and perhaps, for all time.

The United States consistently labeled a nation of indecision against Communist action since the Korean War, bolted out of that category in 1962 with its actions against Cuba, in Vietnam, and at the Berlin Wall. The current administration extended American international policy to a more forceful point at which, instead of trying to work around Communist challenges, it called the Communist bluff, Kennedy, for all the mocking of his well-known statement of "vigor," has quite obviously started a new phase in the Cold War.

Unfortunately, this phrase is not limited to the Western world. Soviet action during 1962 intensified, but it was largely blocked. It is the action of Communist China, a nation still viewed by many as a land of starving masses and no potential that has come to the forefront during the past year. Many people still consider Red China little more than a servant of the Soviet regime. This year ends that thought, a fact that is vividly illustrated in the ever-increasing rift between the two Communist powers. More important, however, it mars a new phase in Communist Chinese activity. Mao Tae-Tung, with perhaps the most brilliant military mind existing in the modern world, has continued his past policy of guerrilla warfare, as is illustrated in Vietnam, and also introduced a shift in the Cold War - the shift to limited warfare.

Some people think of Chinese action in India as being nothing more than border disputes, particularly in view of the recent cease-fire. But the use of many thousands of Red Chinese troops does not seem to indicate a simple dispute. Perhaps it was a show of force and little else, but there are serious doubts as to how long the cease-fire will remain.
	
This, the United States today has what may develop into a much more deadly opponent. If the nation can extend its actions against the Soviet Union to include those of Red China, 1962 could go down in history as the start of American victory. If it does not extend those actions, there could conceivably come a day when the West and the Soviet Union would have to unite against the Chinese.