@TITLE=Excerpts Develop Burnham's Views On World Situation
@BODY=The following are some excerptsfrom articles by Mr. Burnham, whichappeared in the National Review.They are being reprinted with thekind permission of the National Review.
(From "No Friends Allowed" inthe Jan. 30, 1962 issue) "In practice,our Afro-Asian (United Nations)'Strategy, as interpreted bythe Stevenson-Soapy Williams-Bowles-Harlan
Cleveland-Walt Rostowclique, narrows down the definitionof 'neutralist' to mean a governmentshort of outright Sovietbloc integration, but anti-Westernas a minimum, often pro-Soviet;such governments as are illustratedby India, Indonesia, Ghana, Yugoslavia,UAR, Ceylon, even Castro'sCuba (still classified as 'uncommitted'by the New York Times,leading journalistic exponent of theAfro-Asian-UN Strategy). Othergovernments of the underdevelopedregion are considered either "reactionary'(Nicaragua, Rhodesia,Vietnam, Dominican Republic underthe Trujlllos, South Africa) or'Western bloc.' A government cannotacquire 'status' as a bluebloodedneutralist unless It can showanti-Western credentials. And themore anti-Western in rhetoric anddeed (short of full absorption intothe Soviet sphere), the loftier itplace in neutralist society..."Nkrumah had little trouble getting$133 million for his dam. Heis a genuine' (i. e., anti-Western)neutralist. Nehru doesn't have tobother about a strict accounting forhis billions and for the food thatfeeds twenty million of his subjects.His neutralism is validated byhis seizure of Goa. And when Titojustifies Moscow's test resumption,he naturally is entitled to anotherdraft for $200 million or so.
"But the Malagay Republic (arather substantial country, with aconsiderable potential), or Congo(Brazsaville), or Nicaragua; thoughnot wholly forgotten at the banquet,they must sit at the foot of thetable and take the leavings. Forthey are — though one doesn't Tiketo mention this sort of thing Inpublic — friendly to the West!...
"Tshombe and Boun Oum wantto be pro-Western and anti-Communist.This we will not permit;it is bad manners in under-developedregions. They must be "genuinelyneutralist," and to make sure, wesend the UN to shoot up one ofthem, and turn financial screws onthe other...

"...there must be, for the West'ssecurity, and adequate number offirmly pro-Western strong points.For the Western Strategy, thesewould be the points of concentration.The transformation of theentire underdeveloped region intoa "genuinely neutralist" mishmash— which is the inevitable outcomeof the Stevenson-Cleveland-Rostowline — merely processes it forCommunist digestion"
(From "The Choking Point" Inthe March 27, 1962, issue) "'Berlin,'Khrushchev told us in that disconcertinglyfrank way he often has,'is a bone in our throat.' Mr. Kennedycould well echo that Cuba isa bone in oura...
"I believe that.. 'the solution ofthe Cuban question' — that is, theousting of Communism from Cuba shouldrate first in our operationspriorities. With Castro-Khrushchevstill in Cuba, the Alliance for Progressis a pitiful comedy, the cost ofwhich will be worse than wasted.No major Latin American regimecan be a dependable ally and friend,none can take us seriously, unlesswe prove that we can handle a thugon our doorstep. Why should they?They will grab our dollars, and gotheir own way.
"Not only the Latin Americanregimes. Our Cuban failure redounds(sic) to our grave injurythroughout the world. I was inSoutheast Asia just after the abortedinvasion last year, and then inEurope. Serious persons could hardlybe brought to believe the Cubandispatches. Even in the case of thefirmest pro-Westerners, their incredulitywas curdled with a savor of contempt...
"The President test his nerve lastApril (1961). Let us not reproachhim too much for that: it is mucheasier to talk (or write) about decisionsthan to make them. Buthow he must find his nerve again.It is much, much harder now, becauseof that first failure: we payfor our mistakes. And therefore thedecision, too, is much harder.
"Those nibbling methods won'tdo: all this "educating of hemisphereopinion,' 'extension of boycott,'propaganda broadcasts noone listens to, support of an undergroundhandful. Nothing of thatsett will now topple the Commune-Castro regime...
"Our own central power has gotto be brought to bear directly, thistime: preferably — and it would bemore humane so — in a concentrationso massive that prolonged resistancewould be out of the question.If the President is to get theCuban bone out of his throat beforeit chokes him, and the rest ofus, he will have to begin planningthat sort of surgery."

(From "What To Do About the UN" in the April 24, 1963, issue)"The minimum solution (for "Depoliticalizing"the UN) requires onlya single change: adoption of the rulethat the.UN may not vote on 'mattersof substance,' but only on administrative,procedural and technicalquestions. Theoretically thisrule might seem to involve anamendment of the UN Charter. Inpractice, all that is necessary is asimple declaration by the UnitedStates that henceforth the Americanrepresentatives in the UN willno longer vote on matters of substance.Since the UN depends financially,politically and morally on theUnited States, such votes wouldthereupon become automaticallymeaningless. Though they would dislikehaving their UN-swollen self-importancescaled down, the newnations would have no choice but toaccept the new rule, and most ofour Western allies would welcome it.There would be no need to amendthe Charter. Nothing in the Chartercompels the members to vote.The prohibition on voting for mattersof substance would be self-imposed,if not quite voluntary.
"Under a UN regime thus reformed,we would have a chance tomove, as Senator Jackson enjoinsus. 'in the direction of a more realisticappreciation of its limitations,more modest hopes for its accomplishments,and a new maturer senseof the burdens of responsible leadership.'"