@TITLE=Views On The News
@BODY=The news of the day seemsto find a center in Vietnam,and there is little question ofits newsworthiness. For theaverage American, the commitmentthere is foggy at best.Too few people know what weare doing in Vietnam andprobably even less care. Itscomparative geographic isolationdoes little to soften thefact that the United Statesspends about one million dollarsa day there, and to datehas lost over 200 American soldiers.These facts coupledwith daily headlines like, "VietCong Pull off Successful Raid,"and "Government Forces Setback,Again," make a lot ofpeople wonder what is thepoint of all this nonsense.
The American commitmentin South Vietnam is not basedon nonsense. It is basedrather on the agreement wemade with the Diem governmentback ia the fifties afterthe French left, and it is basedon a very real fear that is amanifestation of the "domino"theory of foreign politics.
The Diem government askedthe United States for aid back in about1958, and the United States responded.The aid, military and economic,was forthcoming in very bite-sizedmorsels until about 1962.The Catholic Diem governmenthad been giving the Buddhistsquite a rough time, and theBuddhists were just about atthe end of their rope with Mme.Nhu. A couple of immolationslater, the Diem governmentwas in heaven and "Big Minh"wag in Saigon. He promised tocontinue the war against theNorth Vietnamese, eliminateBuddhist oppression and continuefriendly relations withthe United States.
"Minh" was followed by Gen.Khanh and then the game ofmusical premiers began. 'TheUnited States, determined tocontinue the war, recognizedeach new government after adiplomatically tactful wait of aday or so to allow the new governmentto prove its stability.Khaah was in and out and isat the moment out. CivilianPremier Trang Van Huong recentlydisclosed that he is planningto bring some of the militaryback to the government.This may indicate that Khanhis still pulling a string or two.
Where does this confusionleave the United States? Itleaves it confused, that'swhere. The United States is bound tosupport the Vietnamese governmentand is actually glad todo so. The aim is simply theouster of the Communists fromSouth Vietnam and the creationof neutral state or perhapsa Korean-type situation.What the United States doesnot want is to escalate the warinto a peninsular war thatwould involve the Red Chinese.They are already very closelylinked with Ho Chi Minh andthe Hanoi government, andsend periodic threats about thedangers of United States intervention.
The United States is bound a bit bytradition and a couple of imprompturemarks by past Presidentsto support any countryseeking assistance from Communism.This is the sort ofthing that Great Leader tellsus. But the rapid rise in importanceof the South EastAsian land mass overtly deniesthis generality. The area westto India, east to the Philippines,south to Indonesia and northto Mongolia, contains a largepercentage of the world populationand a lot of the worldpower. China has developeditself into the natural leader ofthis area. It has done thisthru doctrinaire Marxism andstrong anti-Americanism. Sofar China does not have morethan a foothold in the powermarket. China has a firm friendin Ho Chi Minh, has a verystrong position in the fadingneutralism of Laoa, and isquite strong in India. RedChina is obviously gaining inCambodia and has one of thelargest Communist parties inthe world in Indonesia.
Most diplomats agree that Ifthe south Vietnam efforts islost and Saigon falls under HoChi Minh, there will be no stoppingthe Communist impetus. Itwould take very little for thegovernment of Laos and Cambodia
to swing behind Mao. Ifthis occurred the United States would befaced with a new cold warfront much more vigorous andrevolutionary than those pacificold Russkies. This powerblock in the Asian land massalso has the bomb. Not a verybig bomb, but it will get bigger.This group is viciouslyanti-American and not likely tobuy much of the garbage Westerndiplomats usually try tosell over the conference table.It seems essential that theUnited States maintain its effortin Vietnam in the interestof keeping the first dominofrom falling. The cost is greatand the immediate rewards,non-existent, but the thoughtof writing off Vietnam isscary, indeed.
The United States should doanything short of fighting amajor war with Red China tokeep the Viet Cong containedand South Vietnam, free. Thetime has come to say the hellwith journalistic criticismsthat come from those- who feelthat our 'behind-the-scenes'support is a bit reprehensibleand not entirely cricket. I amnot so interested in the welfareof the South Vietnamese,as I am in the prevention of amajor shift in the world powerstruggle. This would seeminglyfollow inevitably after Chinesedomination of this partof the world. A rapid changelike that could be more thandisastrous.