@TITLE=Linus Pauling Gives Program To Remove Threat Of War
@BODY=S. Rand

Linus Pauling, the only man towin two undivided Nobel prizes,fused his scientific and humanistspirit in presenting his lecture"The Moral Aspects of NuclearDisarmament" to the Bowdoincommunity on Nov. 24. His contentionwas that world peace is nowabsolutely imperative because of thedire consequence of atomic war.
EVIDENCEWielding scientific evidence, Pauling-pointed out that, whereas theHiroshima Bomb killed one hundredthousand people with 20,000 tons ofT.N.T., the United States now possesses bombswhich are 1,000 times more powerful.Our armed forces has a stockpilewhich can "overkill" the SovietUnion many times — as they undoubtedlycan also overkill us.
Using information gathered fromhis genetic research, Pauling believesthat 10 million children will suffergross physical defects because ofthe atomic testing, to date. Ifatomic war was to break out 100million United States citizens would die onthe first day with millions moresuffering from radiation poisoning.
A world nuclear holocaust woulddeplete the world's population byas much as 75%, probably destroyingcivilization in the process.
ACCIDENTAL WARInspite of these gruesome statistics,nations are still irresponsible.France and China explode bombswith impunity because they havenot signed the nuclear bomb treaty.
The United States In a projected decentralizationof its nuclear NATO power,would increase manyfold thechance for an accidental war. Byvirtue of this decentralization, WestGermany will have a significantrole in nuclear politics, which, warnsPauling, must be avoided at allcosts. TO avoid a "nuclear nightmare,"Pauling believes that war Itselfmust be abolished as an instrumentof national policy.
PROGRAMAs a first step, Pauling wantsnations to place their nuclear stockpilesunder U.N. control. Chinamust be admitted to the U. N., forno longer can we refuse torecognize her incipient and actualpower.
To prevent the escalation of smallwars into larger ones, the greatpowers must quit aggravatingguerilla warfare. Pauling remindedthe audience of the United States's interventionin South Vietnam and thesuggestion made by General Taylorthat we extend the war into NorthVietnam.
Although Dr. Pauling does not advocateunilateral disarmament, hedoes believe that there must eventuallybe a system of plebisciteswhereby a nation could elect tomaintain or abolish the existinggovernment. Perhaps above all forwar to be abandoned, countriesmust think of mankind as a wholeIn its political dealings. Nationalselfishness must be abolished.