@TITLE=Commentary by Ken Nelson
@BODY=When I was home last weekend, Iwent out to supper at a local restaurant;but, quite by accident Imust have taken the wrong corridorbecause I soon found myself standingon the edge of a crowded roomwhere a testimonial dinner was being held. 
Since my city is small, itwasn't peculiar that I knew of theguest of honor, a man who hadspent much of his life laboring, fora more diversified community. Testimonialsplease me when they arebrought about by genuine appreciationrather than fund-raising, andthis dinner happened to be one ofthat rarer, honest kind. The speakershumorously recalled the "olddays" ribbed their guest with "inside"joshings, and never were forcedto resort to the "canned" stock adjectiveslike "great," "dedicated," or"responsible" which warn you bytheir lack of imagination that youare watching a performance whereinevitably half the audience isseething with envy and the otherhalf is irritated that "this guy ofall guys" should be honored.
Listening to the warm, unpretentioustributes that men were payingto a friend, it seemed to me that theaudience, in their laughter and applause,was getting more pleasureout of the evening than their guestof honor whose embarrassment drovehim consciously deep into his chair.A genuine testimonial is the audience'snight for there is a comfortin redeeming, however inadequately,the debt one incurrs when somebodydoes us a favor. In some sense thisis why we speak of eulogies asspeeches for the living — an opportunityto ante-up, to show ourappreciation.
Maybe it was because I had justheard the news of more deaths inVietnam, and maybe because thetestimonial dinner had turned mythoughts toward "obligation" and"debt" and their perpetual need tobe redeemed but as I sat there, Igrew uncomfortable; not uncomfortablein any "world-view" sort ofway, but rather personally uncomfortablebecause at that moment I(and by extention you) was incurring
a debt that couldn't be redeemed.
You see, when a man dies for his
country, or on account of it, thecitizens of his country redeem hisdeath by believing that he died tosave something precious. While warmay never make sense to some people,and maybe justly so, when wedo find ourselves in a war, it is incumbentupon the government tomake some sense out of the war todeclare its importance in explicitterms so that the dead can beburied with respect. This is neithervanity nor irrelevance. The debt weincur in ordering a man to put hislife in jeopardy, and thereby lose it,is tokenly redeemed by paying himthe tribute of having died for ajust cause. There is a distinction,not the least bit subtle, between gettingkilled in battle and getting killed
in an automobile accident: thesoldier has been required to takethat risk, and when he dies in war,the citizens ought to have the rightto be indebted, to feel that his deathwas an involuntary sacrifice worthyof not just pity, but worthy of respect.And it is a heinous and discomfortingthing when one can pitybut not respect a soldier's death becauseit has been reduced to commandedwaste.
But here we are in Vietnam,involved in a war that few peopleunderstand for few people knowanything about it. Our governmentwraps it in silence. Supposedly, weare aiding a country against Communistaggression, although thatcountry is so concerned with aggressionthat it has managed to enlisteight governments in sixteenmonths; even though our soldiershave been wounded and killed fortwo years, not until a few weeksago did the President speak of thebullets pumping their blood intoforeign soil as "war" bullets; notuntil a few weeks ago were the attackedallowed to retaliate; buteven more perplexing, in twelveyears no President has found causeto make a national speech aboutVietnam so that we might knowwhy America is there and what thegenuine stakes are. Only second andthird string administrators, proddedby industrious newsmen, have foundtime to speak of Vietnam. Frankly,if that war is important enough tosend more apd more troops in perilof their lives, shouldn't it be treatedas important? It is impossible to feelindebted to dead soldiers when theirparticipation is shrouded in secrecy,and the most essential judgmentcannot be made because our governmenthas chosen to keep silent onthe facts. Are our soldiers to be respecteda§ the members of a worthymission, or are they to be pitied asthe price of a diplomatic disaster inwhich we are biding for time? Arewe to feel Indebted or embarrassed?Who knows? How can citizens accordtheir soldiers any respect whentheir presence in Vietnam is
plagued with doubt and ambiguitybecause our government refuses tospeak seriously and directly of thatwar?

The most we have heard is thatif Vietnam falls, all of SoutheastAsia will follow. That is an importantand provocative assumption andmaybe some President will find thetime to elaborate on it because ouractions are not equal to the claimedrisk. After all, If Vietnam is socrucial to all Southeast Asia, if itis the key point to stop Communistaggression, why have we toleratedeight governments in sixteenmonths. If we have put our chipsin with a country which can'tmaintain a government for eightydays nevermind find the willingnessor ability to fight its fair share, whyhaven't we taken that country over?Solidarity is not absurd if the stakesare so high and the threat is justlyours? On the other hand, maybe"saving Southeast Asia" has been aslogan conjured up to explain ourselveswhile we make up our mind?And maybe, we would like to slip outgracefully, but have backed ourselvesinto an embarrassing commitment?Who knows? Who knowsa single thing about Vietnam whenthe facts have been kept secret, solong. Conjecture indictment, condemnation,over simplification suchas this, jingoism, super-patriotism allrun wild because our governmentremains mute. But the ambiguously missionedcasualties still mount.This is not to suggest that ourgovernment must broadcast everystep so that it becomes so news-responsiblethat its hands are tiedby verbal commitment. Nor is this tosuggest that our government mustmake boiling-point speeches andpolicy statements that could onlybreed dangerous jingoism and nurtureuncompromising ultra-uglyAmericanism; Heaven knows theeffort that President Johnson madein the last election to warn us, asKennedy did before him, that theatomic equation has rendered the"big-stick" policy disasterous andthat we must react sensibly to insultsand misunderstandings.
However, the desire for sensibilitydoes not permit silencs, It is a sadsituation when the President of theUnited States cannot trust himselfto speak frankly to the people withoutfearing mass alarm or entanglements.That alarm is more dangerouslynurtured through silence, andambiguity breeds doubt. Presently wehave thousands of troops in Vietnam,as well as Navy Patrols, Hawkmissiles, air force bombing wings(flying totally American missions),an advancing Seventh Fleet, and aclimbing casualty list. How muchmore involvement must take placebefore the President of the UnitedStates is ready to tell us directlywhat is going on in Vietnam?
Maybe I am naive, but since weare obviously in a war and menrepresenting me are under fire, Iwant to respect their perils andtheir loss of lives. I want to knowthat I am indebted. But how can Ifeel anything more than quizzicalpity when Washington stays mute orevasive, and the silence casts aterrible and embarrassing doubt overour whole participation? Three administrationsof silence is enough.