@TITLE=Norman Thomas Urges End to Vietnam War
@BODY=Speaking Monday under the sponsorshipof Delta Sigma, NormanThomas six-time presidential candidateon the Socialist ticket, demandedan end to the war in Vietnam and called upon the people ofthe United States to "... give up the notionthat the United States must playpoliceman in other peoples' wars."Mr. Thomas accused both theUnited States and the North Vietnamese ofviolating the 1954 Geneva Agreement,which did away with theFrench rule in Indo-China and establishedthe present boundaries ofSoutheast Asia. He called the presentconflict a "cruel war" which isin the process of escalation, & processwhich is decreasing 'Russia'sunwillingness to fight."
"We are not fighting (in Vietnam) for Liberty,"
he said, "we'refighting to maintain a list of shakydictatorial governments."The recent surprise attack on theDanang Airbase demonstrated theapparent popularity of the Viet Congwho disappeared into the nativepopulation after the attack. In Mr.Thomas' view, "The President iswrong when he thinks that thewar can be settled from Hanoi."The United States, he said, was "barred byhistory as & successor to the Imperialistsfrom helping Africa andAsia." Communism grows out ofdisaster; and, as long as Communismcan pose as a "friend ofnationalism," the U. S. will continueto "lose face" in SoutheastAsia.
In speaking about the tacticspresently in use in Viet Nam, Mr.Thomas warned the audience thatanother war "... would damn us inthe eyes of the world."
On the subject of war per se, Mr.Thomas said, "scientists (throughtheir technological advances) havemade it possible for us to commita collective act of suicide in thename of Liberty... Peace is anecessity."
To achieve this end, he called foruniversal disarmament under internationalcontrol, a "strong, competentUnited Nations," and an expandedwar of poverty to encompassthe entire world.Calling for an end to the assessmentfight in the General AssemblyMr. Thomas flatly stated that,'at the moment when we need theUN. it is very weak"In speaking on domestic matters,he praised the War on Poverty as a"beginning" and asked for a "rethinking"of the principles of employmentand the utilization of manpowerin the elimination of slumconditions, rather than in defensework.
On Civil Rights. Mr. Thomas criticizedhis own 'generation for itshypocrisy and called the Declarationof Independence a "monstrous hypoccrisy"
since its provisions were notmeant to cover the Negro. He continued" 'Liberty and Justice for all'is a lie"; the people of the United States.must make the statement true."The right-to-vote laws shouldbe an end to legislation... therest," he said, "is up-to us: we mustbring a bit of fraternity to peoplewho have had no fraternity in thepast."
Mr. Thomas was presented byShelly Krems of Delta Sigma, whoreferred to him, in his introduction.as an American institution in himself."