@TITLE=Brightman Claims United States Bombing Futile Hanoi Economy, Morale Undaunted
@BODY=The United. States dropped 638,-000 tons of bomb's on North- Vietnamin 1966. And yet despite thismassive pounding of the tinycountry in Southeastern Asia, thewar today drags on and on. Hasthe bombing proven itself to bemilitarily effective? What areasin North Vietnam are consideredlegitimate military targets by theUnited States? How authentic have beenthe reports surrounding civilianbombings?Not satisfied with State Departmentjustifications, Miss CarolBrlghtman, twenty-seven year oldeditor of Viet Report, a monthlymagazine exploring United States foreignpolicy, recently traveled to NorthVietnam to probe the myths surroundingthe controversial bombings.Describing her observations in alecture in Wentworth Hall onMarch 23, Miss Brightman saidthat the United States has select-,ed administration and communicationcenters, bridges, and supplylines for bombing targets. Shenoted, however, that many townsand villages located in the vicinityof these strategic centers havebeen severely damaged by U. S.bombing. Schools and hospitalshave been destroyed.Dams and dykes, crucial to theagricultural welfare of North Vietnam, have also been hit. MissBrightman, who visited a criticallybombed dyke, could only attributethe attack to the American practiceof punishment bombings, orin the words of Maxwell Taylor"strategic persuasion."Miss Brightman said that U. S.pilots were instructed not to bombcivilian areas, but she claimed thatAmerican reconnaissance equipmentis not sufficient to determineclusters of non-strategic structuresand personnel.Trapped amidst an Americanbombing attack while trying tovisit a hospital, Miss Brightmanobserved a dual purpose in theraid. The first attack includedgeneral purpose explosive bombsCarol Brightmanonly. After a brief pause theplanes returned, this time releasingincendiary rockets setting theentire area ablaze. Miss Brightman,watching from within an undergroundbomb shelter, said thatthe second attack was presumablydesigned to catch people scurryingaway after the first raid.Regarding the type of weaponsemployed by the United States in its attackon North Vietnam, she saidthat the use of cluster bombs andantipersonnel pellets result inneedless loss of civilian life. Shereferred to Dr. Howard Rusk's recentstatements concerning the noticeableabsence of napalm burnedindividuals as "despicable lies."Discussions with North Vietnameseleaders and peasants plus objectiveobservations of the countryitself convinced her of the ineffectivenessof the bombing policy.Hanoi is a totally mobilized city,rationing of food has not increasedSince 1937, and education has beenexpanded considerably. These factscoup'ed with the "Messianic obsessionwith liberation from foreignaggression" prevalent withinthe social psychology of NorthVietnam were evidences enough ofthe failure of the bombings tobring the war to an end.
