@TITLE=Some Editorial Comments 
@BODY="The marchers have appealed to conscience, they have
sought to sever themselves from the blood guilt in Vietnam. Let
their consciences, then, tell them what to reply to those who
may yet die because of the illusions fostered in Hanoi by this
mobilization for 'peace.'
—The New York World Journal Tribune, April 17th

"A serviceman watching the San Francisco marchers is
quoted as saying: 'I'll bet we could get ten times this number
out here to support the war if we made the same effort these
people did/ which may be true. But the pro-war people have
not made the effort, and the anti-war people have...
"And amongst the rank-and-file marchers the hippies and
beatniks obviously were in a different world from the pacifist
clergy."
—The Boston Globe, April 17

"A tyranny of the extreme leftists is today seemingly silencing
a large segment of American opinion, just as the tyranny of
the extreme right silenced American conscience under Mc-
Carthyism...
"McCarthyism manipulated many misguided spokesmen for
diverse and good causes into becoming tools and pawns to perform
its evil work of frightening its critics into silence.
"Today we witness Dr. Martin Luther King and Dr. Benjamin
Spock — a strange pair of bedfellows — and a pedantic
pilgrimage of professors becoming tools of the New Left." —Portland Sunday Telegram, April 16
"... what the demonstrators sought is not considered either
by the American Government or by a majority of the American
people, to be within the bounds of practicality...
"It is one thing to call for a suspension of the bombing of
North Vietnam (in the hopes that It might lead to peace talks),
or for a 'hold and defend' policy, but it is quite another thing to
demand that the war be brought to an early and sharp end by
America's one-sided withdrawal."
—The Christian Science Monitor, April 18 

"The organizers of today's demonstrations against the war
in Vietnam presumably wish to have both moral impact and
political effect They will have neither...
"The war is not a simple bedtime story between heroes and
villains. All the morality is not and never was confined to one
side in this miserable struggle. In moral terms, the demonstrators
are pursuing a double standard.
"In political terms a demonstration In favor of a halt to the
bombing of North Vietnam as a prelude to negotiations could
realistically serve the cause of peace. But a demonstration in
favor of unilateral American withdrawal would only mean a
March up a dead-end street... The political effect of such a demand is nil."

—The New York Times, April 15
