@TITLE=YAF Proposes Volunteer Army 
@BODY=Young Americans for Freedom (YAF), the nation's largest conservative youth group, has called for an end to the draft and transition to an all-volunteer Army. 
The YAF position is outlined in the May issue of the organization's magazine, "The New Guard." That issue contains articles by three leading conservatives in favor of a voluntary army. The three are former GOP presidential candidate Barry Goldwater, author and historian Russell Kirk, and University of Chicago economist Milton Friedman.
Also in the issue are statements by other conservatives opposed to the draft, including California Governor Ronald Reagan; William f. Buckley Jr., editor of National Review; and Admiral Ben Morrell, now president of Americans for Constitutional Action. 
The following is the text of the YAF resolution on conscription RESOLUTION ON CONSCRIPTION PASSED BY THE NATIONAL BOARD OF DIRECTORS OF YOUNG AMERICANS FOR FREEDOM INC ON MARCH 19. 1967
"We as young conservatives who support a policy of total
victory over communism, particularly in the war in Vietnam, fight that war through to victory, hereby resolve that:
"1. The American people,
through the Congress, should establish as our goal a voluntary
system of military service. Congress should begin the implementation of that goal this year, with as many specific steps in the direction of voluntarism as are possible at this time; and it should establish a projected timetable for full implementation of that goal.
"2. In times of acute national emergency, some form of temporary conscription may well be necessary to provide for the national defense. Congress should draft legislation toward that end - legislation that is more requitable and realistic than the present Selective Service System.
"3. Conscription can be justified in this country only in the sense that it is the duty of every citizen to defend his country in time of war. We oppose any system such as compulsory National Service in which the justification is that a person owes a certain number of years of his life to the government. Such a system would be, in reality, a slave labor system coated with democratic slogans."
