@TITLE=TEXT OF STUDENTS' LETTERS TO JOHNSON
@BODY=Following is the text of a letter sent yesterday to President Johnson drafted by the student-body presidents or student editors of 100 colleges and universities in the United States: 
In your talk to the student interns last summer, as on other occasions, you have recognized and discussed problems that have been troubling members of our generation. We have been grateful for your concern and encouraged by your invitation to express some of your thoughts. 
Since many of these thoughts center increasingly on the situation in Vietnam, the New Year's renewal of the truce seems a suitable occasion to report to you that significant and growing numbers of our contemporaries are deeply troubled about the posture of their Government in Vietnam. We believe the state of mind of these people, though largely unreported, is of great importance, because there are many who deeply troubled for every one who has been outspoken in dissent. 
A great many of those faced with the prospect of military duty find it hard to square performance of that duty with concepts of personal integrity and conscience. Even more are torn by reluctance to participate in a war whose toll in property and life keeps escalating, but about whose purpose and value to the United States they remain unclear. 
Serious New Doubts 
The truces have highlighted growing conviction on American campuses that if our objective In the fighting in Vietnam is a negotiated settlement rather than a military "victory," continued escalation cannot be justified by the failure of the other side to negotiate. 
If, on the other hand, our objective is no longer a negotiated settlement, the nature of attainability of our objectives in Vietnam raise serious new doubts. There is thus increasing confusion about both our basic purpose and our tactics, and there is increasing fear that the course now being pursued may lead us irrevocably into a major land war in Asia - a war which many feel could not be won without recourse to nuclear weapons, if then. In this context there is a widespread support for the suggestion of the Pope and others that the resumed truce be extended de facto by restraint on both sides, even if no formal agreement is reached. And there is hope that if fighting must be resumed in 1967 it will be resumed on a reduced scale.
In short, Mr. President, a great many of our contemporaries, raised in the democratic tradition of shining for themselves, are finding a growing conflict between their own observations on the one hand, and statements by Administration leaders about the war on the other. These are people as devoted to the Constitution, to the democratic process, and to law and order as they're their fathers and brothers who served willingly in two World Wars and in Korea. 
Draft Law Criticized 
Unless this conflict can be eased, the United States will find some of her most loyal and courageous young people choosing to go to jail rather than to bear the country's arms, while countless other condone or even utilize techniques for evading their legal obligations. Contributing to this situation is the almost universal conviction that the present Selective Service law operates unfairly. 
We write in the hope that this letter will encourage a frank discussion of these problems. If such as discussion clarified American objectives in  Vietnam, it might help reverse the drift, which is now from confusion toward disaffection. To this end, we submit for your consideration some of the questions now agitating the academic community: 
There is doubt that America's vital interests are sufficiently threatened in Vietnam to necessitate the growing commitment here. There is doubt that such vital interests as may be threatened are best protected by this growing commitment. 
There is doubt that a war which may devastate much of the countryside can lead to the stable and prosperous Vietnam we once hoped out presence would help create. There is considerable concern about apparent contradictions in the American position on certain points basic to any efforts to negotiate a settlement. High government officials reiterate our eagerness to negotiate "unconditionally," but we remain unclear about our willingness to accept full participation by the Vietcong as independent party to negotiations. 
Similarly, Administration spokesman reiterate our commitment to self-determination for South Vietnam, but we remain unclear about our willingness to accept a coalition (or pro- Communist) government should the people of South Vietnam eventually choose such a government under adequate international supervision. 
Finally, Mr. President, we must report a growing sense - reinforced by Mr. Harrison Salisbury's recent reports from Hanoi-that too often there is a wide disparity between American statements about Vietnam and American actions there. 
We hope you will find it possible to share your thoughts with us about these matters. The rising confusion about national purpose can undermine mutual trust and respect among our people. This seems to us as urgent as a problem as any that confronts the nation today. 
We are grateful for your interest and spend our best wishes for the new year. 
 


