@TITLE=Draft-Free Canada Home For Disenchanted United States Youths
@BODY=TORONTO This month thousands of men will be inducted intothe United States armed forces. ExpatriateBob Thomas will not beamong them.It's not that Bob isn't eligible— he's been 1-A for the past ninemonths. Rather, he has left hisnative Indiana to live here in Canadawhere United States draft laws do notapply.Bob mot his real name) is oneof a growing number of Americansemigrating to Canada to escape thedraft. An estimated 2,000 United Statescitizens have .moved to Canada inthe past two years for the samereason. About 400 to 500 havesettled in this modern Ontarioprovincial capital of nearly 2 million.Bob, a soft-spoken 22-year-old,introduces himself as "your friendlyneighborhood draft dodger" topreserve anonymity.A cum laude English graduateof a top Ivy League school lastJune, he returned home to find1-A greetings from his local draftboard.He carefully weighed the alternativemethods of avoiding thedraft. To begin with, Bob is not apacifist or conscientious objector."Besides," he explains, "I wouldn'ttake CO. status because it's demeaning.I have no intention ofcooperating with the military systemin any way."The other route was jail — up tofive years and $10,000 for failingto report for induction. "But thatwouldn't do anyone any good. AndI see no reason to make a martyrof myself."So he decided the only way outwas North. He told his father whowas dismayed and his mother who"cried a lot." When he arrivedhere in June, Tony Hyde of theStudent Union for Peace Action,a Canadian affiliate of Studentsfor a Democratic Society, foundhim a place to stay. To qualifyfor landed immigrant status andlegally remain in Canada he took ajob at the University of Torontolibrary.Bob finds Canada "far more relaxedand less hysterical" than theUnited States Canada has no draft."Any government that tried tostart the draft again would getthrown out of office," explainsTony Hyde.He says his fellow employeesunanimously support his reasonsfor moving to Canada. In hisspare time he reads, writes poetry,does watercolors, and generallyleads a tranquil existence.Except for the fact that he cannever return to the United Statesagain (where he would face that$10,000 fine and five, years in jail)his life is free of "restrictions. Along-standing pact between theUnited States and Canadian governmentsprohibits his extradition."From up here," says Bob,"America really looks like it's goingnuts." In fact he goes sofar as to claim that the UnitedStates is "on its way to a collectivenervous breakdown."An armchair analyst, he giveshalf a dozen reasons for projectinga national crackup. "For one thing,the right-wing militaristic mentalitythat got us into Vietnamis going to take control of thecountry. Sheer race hatred willresult in constant premeditatedviolence between the races withinthree years.Vietnam is going to get worse,and in three or four years we willbe doing the same thing someplaceelse — there are four or five majorcandidates. Inflation will rock theeconomic structure."The psychedelic thing has alreadywon. As Timothy Learysays, too many people have alreadytried it and liked it. Andthis gap between the generationswill widen. The old people won'tbe able to understand our generationat all."
Bob articulates his dire prophecywith a great deal of pride andwas somewhat miffed to discoverthat Newsweek reduced it all toone sentence in a recent article ondraft dodgers. "That reporter justdidn't understand. The Newsweekguy kept asking me if I wouldhave fought in World War II. Iprobably would have but it's a totallyirrelevant question. I'm notconcerned about history. I'm justagainst the American role in Vietnam."According to Tony Hyde, "Bobis not a typical draft dodger. Infact, I don't think there is anysuch thing. We're finding a lot ofpolitical types but for many people,coming up here is their firstpolitical act. We even had a rightwingtype from Arizona come uprecently. He was sort of a Jeffersonian-type Democrat who didn'twant to fight in Vietnam. His parentseven agreed."Still, Bob contends that his decisionto move to Canada was notpolitical."Personal freedom is the reasonI came up here. I want to havethe right to say no to people. I'veget better things to do than beused like a robot-like killer dogin the Army. No one has theright to tell me to go drop napalmon people. I want the right torun my own life."