@TITLE=Politics—Bowdoin Style
@BODY=The Right: If you are concerned about: Murder by the VC in Vietnam Student Apathy Irresponsible Black Power Ultra-Liberal Politics Draft Dodgers Living in the Most Free Country in the World A Republic Don't go to extremes, join YAF, Young Americans for Freedom. I have presented the statement below as a basis for the viewpoint from which in future columns I will discuss issues of concern to college students. The statement happens to be an adaptation of the Sharon Statement of the Young Americans for Freedom (YAF). Appropriately enough I wish to discuss this organization in my first column. Founded in 1960 in Connecticut, YAF has grown to a nationwide organization of about 30,000 members. Thirty-nine members of the 89th Congress serve on its national advisory board along with such prominent party leaders as Ronald Reagan. YAF has had an active six years of existence. Among its many accomplishments is that it is generally credited with forcing the Firestone Tire and Rubber CO to abandon its plans to build a plant in Romania. Last Christmas YAF continued to go all the way in support of our troops in Vietnam - and donated blood, collected petitions, write letters and Christmas cards, gathered books, soap, and gifts. NSA Opposed YAF organized locally last semester, and saw an active second semester. Due party to the campaign waged by YAF, a proposal to join the National Student Association (NSA) was defeated 17 to 4 by the student council. Speaking on campus last year was George S Schuyler, a national advisory board member whose autobiography entitled Black and Conservative has caused a minor stir. YAF chairman Jon Parsons, '69, defended the administration's position in a YAF sponsored student debate on Vietnam. This debate was well attended and received. Freedom Forum Seen This year YAF is considering undertaking a nationwide YAF project known as the Freedom Forum. This program is designed to allow a truly full discussion on the campus of issues of particular interest to college students. It will consist of an open forum for all views, and will include distribution of literature representing the divergent views on campus, discussions, and debates. China, the draft, and Vietnam are likely topics. Programs Broad-Ranging A number of other programs are being considered in the fields of civil rights, academic freedom, education at Bowdoin, etc. Even if you'd decide not to join YAF, I hope you decide to participate in the discussions, debates, and other programs. And while I realize this has been said many times before, it is no less true that the outcome of these issues effect you, and you should take an active part. YAF gives you that opportunity. I believe: "That foremost among the transcendent values is the individuals use of his God given free will, whence derives his right to be free from the restrictions of arbitrary force; That liberty is indivisible, and that political freedom cannot long exist without economic freedom (and vice versa); That the purposes of government are to protect these freedoms through the preservation of internal order, the provision of national defense, and the administration of justice; that when government ventures beyond these rightful functions, it accumulates power which tends to diminish order and liberty; that the constitution of the United States is the best arrangement yet devised for empowering government to fulfill its proper role, while restraining it from the concentration and abuse of power; That the genius of the Constitution - its division of powers - is summed up in the clause which reserves primacy to the several states, or to the people, in those spheres not specifically delegated to the Federal Government; that the market economy, allocating resources by the free play of supply and demand, is the single economic system compatible with the requirements of personal freedom and constitutional government, and that it is at the same time the most productive supplier of human needs; that when government interferes with the work of the market economy, it tends to reduce the moral and physical strength of the nation: that when its takes from one man to bestow on another, it diminishes the incentive of the first, the integrity of the second, and the moral autonomy of both; That we will be free only so long as the national sovereignty of the United States is secure: that history shows periods of freedom are rare, and can exist only when free citizens concertedly defend their rights against all enemies; that the forces of international communism are, at present, the greatest single threat to these liberties; That the United States should stress victory over, rather than coexistence with, this menace; and that American foreign policy must be judged by this criterion: does it serve the just interests of the United States! The above is an adaptation of The Sharon Statement adopted by the Young Americans for Freedom. It is presented as a point of departure for future discussions from a conservative viewpoint of issues of concern to college students. The Left: If you are indignant about murder in Vietnam Student Serfdom (Bowdoin, not Berkeley kind) White Backlash Reactionary Politicians Legalized Impressment (So-called selective service) Living in an un-free, non-democratic country shoot yourself: or join students for a democratic society call Mark Freedman ext 507 or come to a meeting this wed nov 16 at 10:30 pm in conf rm B SDS, students for a Democratic Society. Communists, you might think - well there might be communists in SDS. There are undoubtedly some communist sympathizers. SDS does not bother to ask. What is the difference? SDS takes stands on particular issues facing the American people, and especially the American college student. If you agree with SDS, you are welcome to join. We don't pin labels on our members, or ask for their personal political beliefs. SDS practices the freedom they preach. Extremists, some people claim. Perhaps - to some people. SDS works for freedom, peace, justice, brotherhood . . . for all people. For some peoples these desires are extremes. Justice will cost some people money; peace will bankrupt many more; and Malcolm X was killed on th first day of National Brotherhood Week. There are many shortcomings in American society; if we don't try to improve these, who will? But SDS at Bowdoin? Why not? Even at Bowdoin there are many students who are not apathetic to what is going on in the world around them. The Vietnam war has opened many eyes; and the specter of the draft hovers around most of us. Many are beginning to worry about where our government is leading us. Why does the President feel that he has to lie to the American people; why, day after day, do we hear half-truths about Vietnam? It has gotten to the point that one can tell the size of the upcoming escalation by the amount of "peace" propaganda. The cost of war is beginning to show both in the cut-back of government programs, and in the scarcity of money for loan by banks. The cost will be almost 20 billion dollars this year alone; and the cost will go up as we increase our troop commitment. Peace looks farther and farther in the future. As any careful reader of the news realizes, Washington is now demanding a complete deactivation of the Viet Cong as a pre-condition for American troop withdrawal. Vietnam is not the only problem in which Bowdoin students are interested. The troubles within the Negro ghettos are not new; the rioting of the last three summers have just put them in the middle of the public eye. The federal government doesn't seem to know how to solve these problems; and the state and local governments are as far away from solutions now as they were ten years ago. Stokely Carmichael has an idea. It involves the Negro community getting its own identity rather than being a subgroup of the white culture. He calls this idea "Black Power". Instead of censuring the idea, we ought to give him a chance to try it. Have you any better ideas? Nobody else seems to. We have nothing to lose, and everything to win. Unfortunately, many hear the words "Black Power" and immediately think of Negroes walking down the streets with guns. Bowdoin students don't like groups like the House Un-American Activities Committee. Who has the right, these students asl, to tell another person that he is "Un-American"? Doesn't this whole concept undermine the possibility of a really free and democratic society? Why should the passport office have the right to request that H Stuart Hughes, a Harvard professor, be kept under surveillance while traveling in Europe? Many Bowdoin students are concerned about the problems facing the United States both internally and externally. We are concerned about the curtailing of our freedom by groups like the un-American activities committee; and we are concerned about the unfairness of the selective service system. We think that many of you will want to join with us in showing your discontent with many facets of American life and politics, and help us to make the United States a better place to live. This is why we are starting a chapter of Students for a Democratic Society, SDS, at Bowdoin. SDS will have an organizational meeting at 10:30 pm late enough for everyone to be there, on Wednesday night, November 16, in Conference Room B of the Moulton Union. I hope to see many of you there.  