@TITLE=Annual ROTC Review Honors Two Vietnam War Deaths
@BODY=Two American soldiers killed in combat in Vietnam were posthumously awarded medals for heroism during the 15th annual review of the Bowdoin College ROTC Monday.
Invited as honored guests were Mr. and Mrs. Reginald E. Garrison, Sr. Brunswick, parents of PFC Earl S. Garrison, United States of America, who died in action last March 3; and Lt. Cmdr. and Mrs. Louis P. Udell, USN, parents of PFC Mark F. Udell, United States of America, who died in action May 19, 1966.
Private Garrison, who was serving with the 173rd Airborne Brigade at the time of his death, was posthumously awarded the Bronze Star with V for Valor and the Purple Heart.
Private Udell, a member of the 25th Infantry Division, was posthumously awarded the Silver Star, Vietnamese Military Medal and Vietnamese Gallantry Cross with Palm.
The program included presentation of a Bowdoin College ROTC Certificate of Achievement and engraved memento to Lt. Col. Philip S. Wilder, USAR (Ret.), Assistant to Bowdoin President James S. Coles, for "Outstanding and Untiring Devotion to the Bowdoin ROTC and the United States Army."
Cadet Lt. Col. Fred E. Hayr.es, III, Commander of the Battalion, received two honors at the annual awards presentation. He was awarded the Pershing-Presnell Sword, which goes to the Cadet commanding the College's ROTC unit, and the Senior Superior Cadet Ribbon and Citation,
Three other winners of Superior Cadet Ribbons and Citations were Mark R. T. Pettit, Jr. '68, Jay W. Simmons, II '69 and G. Christopher Crighton '70.
Also winning awards were Cadet Wilferd B. Vachon, Jr. '67, Maine Society, Sons of the American Revolution Award; Cadet Thomas M. Watson '68, Association of the United States Army Award; Cadet Capt. Richard H. Bamberger '67. General Douglas MacArthur Award.
Also, Cadet Maj. Edwin L. Russell '67, American Legion Award; Cadet Robert S. Black- wood, Jr. '69. Award for Excellence in the Study of Military History.
Winning the Reserve Officers' Association Award were Cadets Chester R. Freeman '68, Lawrence G. O'Toole '69 and Clark T. Irwin, Jr. '70.
Cadet W. Warden Rinehart '70, won the Cadet of the Year Award for a basic course student.
The Class of 1963 Marksmanship Trophy went to Cadet John M. Rector, Jr. '68.
legislation that is more equitable and realistic than the present Selective Service System.