@TITLE=The Torch of Freedom
@BODY=Time: The near future. Place: The halls of Congress. Characters: Wayne and Bobby. Bobby: Hey, Wayne, here's something that you ought to see! I dug it out of an old history text, you know, one of those they used back when they were allowed to print just any old history, not the government-approved. FDA-inspected version that our special advisors down at SNCC whipped up. Wayne: I thought they'd burned all the old ones. Bobby: No, I saved this one. It contains all those quaint names, like Patrick Henry, Nathan Hale.... Wayne: Quiet! There might be children around! You don't want them to grow up with such twisted ideas, do you? (Suspiciously) What is it that you asked me to see? Bobby: Something called the "Pledge of Allegiance." Such chauvinism! Listen, it starts out "I pledge allegiance to the flag..." Wayne: The what? Bobby: Flag, flag. It's a symbol, but it doesn't really mean anything. We used to have one till the U.N took it away. It goes on, "...of the United States of America..." Wayne: Obsolete term. Bobby: (Still reading) "...and to the republic for which it stands..." Wayne: Republic! That was used before Social Planning took over. Why, they used to think that the people knew better than we did what was good for 'em. We've got Mass Democracy now! Just ask any of the peons, er, I mean, people. Baby: wait, it gets better! "...one nation..." Wayne: Nationalism! How horrible! They actually believe that one nation was better than another, that some nations could be right and other wrong... Bobby: Well, there are no absolutes... Wayne: ... and that citizens had a veritable duty, why, an obligation to support their country. Today we know that "traitor" is a meaningless term! Why, look at all the heroes that sent blood to that poor oppressed minority, the Viet Long. Bobby: Yeah! Wayne: Now that we govern our foreign affairs sensibly, by polls of world opinion, we're guaranteed not to alienate anyone! Bobby: It goes on "... under God ..." Wayne: Unconstitutional! Unconstitutional! Bobby: Didn't you hear about Earl's latest fifteen-minute verdict? The Constitution is unconstitutional. Wayne: That's what happens when you put Art and the boys on the Supreme Court. We don't need any God! We've got Harvard, and besides, moral right is what five out of nine men agree on. Bobby: "...indivisible..." Wayne: Well, we did have to give California to the North Vietnamese in order to end the war. Bobby: But they let us keep New York! Wayne: We had to get rid of Reagan anyway. Some people just don't qualify for federal aid. Bobby: "...with liberty and justice for all." Wayne: Right! Everybody should be a Supreme Court justice at least once! Bobby: Wayne, I don't think... Wayne: (interrupting) I know, but you don't have to. After all, it's not a civil right! And you know our motto: better pink than think! Bobby: Wayne... Wayne: And liberty! Why we're all equal! What do we need to be free for? Bobby: Wayne, I've got to go. Wayne: What's up! Bobby: We're throwing a surprise coronation banquet for Teddy in the East Room... Wayne: Oh, it's his turn this month! Curtains.