@TITLE=Miss Brightman, North Vietnam Visitor, To Probe Air War
@BODY=One of the handful of Americans who has visited North Vietnamwill be coming tA Bowdoin March 22 and 23 to speak on United States foreignpolicy in Southeast Asia. Miss Carol Brightman, sponsored here bythe Political Forum, is a 1961 graduate of Vassar and has just returnedfrom a twenty-four day tour of North Vietnam, preceded bytwo weeks in Cambodia. Her visit included investigation of the "HoChi Minh" and "Sihanouk" Trails, and inspections of Cambodianborder violations by the United States, South Vietnamese, and Thai troops.Miss Brightman is Editor of Viet-Report, a monthly magazine(20,000 circ.) of news and analysis of United States foreign policy, primarilyin the underdeveloped nations. Simultaneous with her visit to theNorth another of V-R's editors toured South Vietnam as paTt of themagazine's continuing effort to gain comprehensive coverage of thewar.Miss Brightman also went to North Vietnam as a member of thesecond Investigating Team of the International War Crimes Tribunal,led by Jean Paul Sartre and sponsored by Bertrand Russell. Whilethere, she traveled further into the bombed zones than any previousAmerican visitor. Her team was assigned the task of answering thefollowing questions:1. What are the targets of the bombing? 2. Does the pattern ofthe bombing reveal any effort to destroy specifically civilian targets?3. What was the proximity of the raids from observable militarytargets? 4. What weapons are being used and what is their "normal"target assignment? 5. Was the nature of the weapons being used consistentwith official American explanations of the targets and objectivesof the bombing of North Vietnam?The investigation was carried out by visits to the bombed sites,where survivors were interviewed and weapons fragments collected.Twice during Miss Brightman's visit she was forced to take shelterfrom United States air attacks in her immediate vicinity.Individual team member.! will submit written reports to theappropriate Commission of the Tribunal which will then try to determine,based on these accounts, whether the incidents fall under therelevant international statutes on war crimes, etc. as defined by theNuremburg Tribunal following the Second World War, by the GenevaProtocols and the Hague Conventions, etc.
HOSPITAL IN VIETNAM: Carol Brightman talks with Nuc VanLoc who has been injured by anti-personnel pellets in Ha Tu,Quang Ninh Province. Miss Brightman will be on campus March22 and 23.
