@TITLE=Conservative Campus Group Favors C.I.A. Investigation
@BODY=Young Americans for Freedom including the Campus DouglasMacArthur Chapter, the nation's largest conservative youthgroup, has called for an immediate Congressional investigation ofthe relationship between the Central Intelligence Agency and theNational Student Association (NSA).
Newspaper reports have indicatedthat the CIA has been subsidizingthe NSA at the rate of $200,-000.00 annually since the early1950s.Bowdoin Chairman, John Williams'68 has drafted and sent lettersto the Maine Congressionaldelegation asking them to supportan investigation.Due in large part to informationprovided by the local chapter,-the Student Council turned downa motion to affiliate with NSA bya vote of 17-4.The National Vice Chairman ofYAP, Alan MacKay of Boston,.Mass., said in a statement issuedin Washington that the NationalStudent Association consistentlyhas taken far-left positions, oftenagreeing with Communists on majorissues. MacKay cited NSApolicy statements which call for animmediate halt to all bombing bythe United States in Vietnam, participation
Of the National Liberation Front - the political front of Viet Cong - in a South Vietnamese coalition
Government condemning United StatesWhen the Communists threatenedaid to the Dominican Republicto take over by force, urging admissionof Communist China to the United Nations, supporting theBerkeley students responsible fordisorders there, praising FidelCastro, and opposing the HouseCommittee on Un-American Activities."There can be no justification,"MacKay said, "for the use ofAmerican taxpayers' money tosupport this kind of radical leftwinggroup.' The Congress has aduty to see that those responsiblefor this policy in the C.I.A. are removedand that such subsidies areended."MacKay noted that YAF has in the past repeatedly called for aninvestigation of NSA's tax-exemptstatus, since such groups are forbiddenBy federal law from seekinging to influence legislation beforeCongress. . 
"NSA has directly "violated thisJaw," MacKayCharged 'and 'onmany occasions' NSA officials hayeappeared before CongressionalCommittees and led national campaignsto influence legislation.""Since CIA subsidy funds wererouted through such tax-exemptfoundations into NSA hands," headded, "these foundations, as wellas NSA should be investigated bythe Internal Revenue Service."MacKay also noted that it isagainst federal law to use federalfunds to influence legislation beforeCongress. He said that anyCIA funds given to NSA and usedfor NSA lobbying activities wouldbe another violation of the law.
