@TITLE=Seniors Divided on Draft Lottery, Deferments 
@BODY=What are the reactions on the part of Bowdoin Seniors concerningPresident Johnson's proposed lottery system? To find the answer,twenty seniors were chosen at random, and were asked" to expresstheir views on the lottery question.Of the twenty, seventeen were in some way in favor of the lotteryidea. Three men totally opposed the concept, while a number of thosein agreement expressed seriously reservations about the system asproposed by the President. Four of the seniors suggested some formof universal service as an alternative to either the present Draftprocedures, and the proposed lottery.Dean Milliken felt that "the lottery would be better than whatwe now have, but not really good. I would like to see something likeSwitzerland's national service, where everyone serves for two yearsimmediately after leaving high school. This way everyone would knowhow to plan for the future. I don't think that the lottery will workout well; it won't make people any happier than they are now underthe draft system."
Deferments Supported
Charlie Powell, on the other hand, stated, "I am for the lottery,but with certain deferments such as for medical students. I thinkthat most of the present deferments for graduate school should becut out. The question is who is to determine whether one person ismore valuable in school, or in the army. I am in favor of draftinggraduate students, but this is only directed at the emergency at hand.It could be different in peacetime. The lottery Would provide morejustice than a real desire to go there (Vietnam). I favor a lottery fornineteen-year-olds, but am not in favor of an universal service, thereis no need for it."Representing those who opposed the lottery were Steve Randand Bruce Bushey. Rand declared, "the lottery idea is absolutelywrong if it allows for any exemptions. A person in the humanitieshas as much right to a deferment as a medical student. The criterionfor selection must be on interest, and this would be difficult. Weshould get out of Vietnam (alleviate the entire problem), and use themoney we are spending there to aid the poor in our country- Weare fighting a criminal war."Bushey also responded that we should not be in Vietnam. He saidthat he approves of a lottery over the present system, but if it weredone, it should be done immediately at -the end of a person's highschool career. "I favor a lottery system for a national service toinclude programs such as VISTA and the Peace Corps, with an additionalpay increase for the armed forces, so as to make that alternativemore attractive."
Draft After High School
Some of the other comments were, "We should have the lotterywhen students graduate from high school. Under the proposed system,those students now in school would be at a disadvantage. We arelikely to be drafted if we continue our education at this time." "Ifavor the idea because it would be a great deal fairer than the presentsystem. If we are going to have a war. we should have some form oflottery to make service in the armed forces decided upon in a fairermethod." "The Peace Corps, or similar programs should be made tocount as an equivalent service to the Army, Navy, etc."Concerning the lottery. Rob Jones said, "the idea is unrealistic,• because many of the officers now come out of colleges. There wouldbe no incentive to go into college, and then into the army afterwards.I am against the lottery, what we have now is better. If they dohave a lottery, women should also be included. If they want equalrights, they should share equal responsibility." ,Another senior replied "as far as I understand the President'sproposal, I favor it, for it would be much less discriminatory towardsthe poor."
"Defer All In College"
Michael Suvalle answers that he was not in agreement with theideal of having deferments for specific groups. "Either you givedeferments to everyone in college, or you give none. For the nineteenyear-olds, this idea sounds like a good idea. Each person would knowthen what his commitments would be, and would be able to plan hislife upon them. I do think it is unfair for us to be thrown in beforewe complete the education we want. After we have attained the educationwe want, then possibly we should be thrown into a pool; it isup to them at that time."There was a wide variety of answers given in this abbreviatedpoll, but it seems that most of the Seniors interviewed supported thelottery idea as being a bettor alternative to the draft system we nowhave. There was a feeling among some of the seniors that we wouldbe placed in a bad situation if the lottery went into effect right now.Some of them mentioned the double jeopardy that medical studentswould be placed in, arid some also felt that universal national servicewas a much better, and fairer alternative.
