@TITLE=Anti-Antiwar Parade: A Subjective View Demonstration Seen As Historical Paradox
@BODY=History follows cycles they say and certainly no one will
agree with that although it can irk us once in a while with a paradox or two. So they say and certainly no one can dis-agree with that either after a perusal of last Sunday's Boston Herald report on the anti-anti-
war demonstration in New York City attended by some 70,000
marchers including a patriarch or two (Cardinal Spellman and Chuck Connors). Supposedly the demonstration was organized in honor of the "Support Our Boys in "Vietnam" way of locking at tilings by Fire Chief Gimmler and supported by unions, veterans, youth organizations and the like. Maybe they're right after all because when you think of it the poor bereaved families of Our Boys
in the Colonies must have felt the same way two hundred years ago. But there was another reason for the parade. That's freedom. We've got something the British bereaved never had and we've also got that fiery old American Revolutionary Spirit behind us. The drum-and-fife boys and all that to support OUR holy efforts across the seas. Something the British never had. The American Revolutionary Spirit is our Pride and Joy and so is freedom and so are Our Boys in Vietnam and certainly no one could disagree with that especially if you were at the demonstration because you might get tarred and feathered for not being with it as one "anti-war demonstrator" (so the police described him) was at Fifth Avenue and 78th Street. He had to be rushed to the hospital by police. 
But only a few were not so Proud and Joyous since the tar- buckets were readily available.
Patriotism and "hey,
do you say let's support our boys in Vietnam today" (as one sign read) was the order of the day. Reef, white, and blue were the colors of the day as thousands of marchers carried American flags and hauled a few up at the very site where "Red" sympathizers burnt the flag at the anti-war demonstration a month
ago. White for the chastity of our holy cause, blue for the challenge across the seas, red for the blood shed by our boys in Vietnam, and red for the color in front of paraders' eyes as they fittingly "bombarded" a STOP BOMBING sign hung out of a third floor window in the uptown area with eggs. Red was the color in front of the eyes of eleven nostalgic Medal of Honor winners who marched in the parade followed by 100 Vietnamese carrying signs reading "thanks for your help in defense of freedom" as police 
had to usher several anti-anti-antiwar demonstrators into an apartment lobby for protection at one point. Several thousand demonstrators gone Red, the color of the fanatical cause we're fighting all over the world and especially in Vietnam. The drum-and-fife boys in redcoats... 
But the demonstrators' cause was sanctified, for as pointed out, a patriarch was present. As the Boston Herald puts it:
Francis Cardinal Speliman who has spent 16 straight Christmas seasons overseas with American servicemen, appeared at the official reviewing stand to watch the parade. Cardinal Speilman 78, So the demonstrators had religion behind them. And after all, the Church has supremacy over the King and still awaits graciously the return of Luther's followers to fold although he himself is obsolete. 