@TITLE=Letters To The Editor
@BODY=To The Editor: The first article by the carrier of "The Torch of Freedom" was a sharp contrast to that of Marc Freedman. The two views expressed possibly reflect the wide range of political views held by Bowdoin students. It is interesting to note that, in spite of the substantive difference of their arguments, both writers share a common denominator—emotionalism. The advocate of "freedom" argues mainly around the idea, "my country right or wrong" (chauvinism), while Mr. Freedman, undoubtedly a humanitarian, calls for a unilateral withdrawal of U.S troops from Vietnam because it will stop the killing. It seems that both positions are extreme. The polarization of ideas into two extremes, it seems, makes the evolution of a compromise or a middle path more difficult. The idea of the unconditional withdrawal of U.S forces from Vietnam is out of the question. What is more pertinent for discussion is what people can do to safeguard and increase their "freedom" (that is, if they know what that term means). I am very skeptical about such words as freedom and democracy. These words have become almost cliches in the modern world. Unthinking people often label their government (whatever it may be) as democracies and accuse their enemies as totalitarian (fascist or communist). It is crucial, therefore, to define precisely what one means by freedom. Freedom is a nebulous term. Most people think of it as "freedom to do something"—liberty; others regard it as "freedom from something"—security. The concept of freedom has evolved from the times of the high Middle Ages, when the rising merchant classes identified their newly-found freedom with freedom from feudal ties and freedom to accumulate, to the present when freedom and ideas about freedom are talked about in every corner of the globe. It remains to be seen if the East and the West are talking about the same thing. Freedom, as defined by the rising bourgeoisie of the early 19th century, basically meant a "laissez faire" policy in economic life, which in turn meant a minimum of governmental interference in the market. As the middle classes have come to dominate western Europe, the have begun to identify their specific concept of freedom (as related in economic activity and subsequently shaped into politics) with the general concept of freedom which still remains to be defined. 