@TITLE=Life At The Top
@BODY=If there is anything to epitomize the Senior Center experience, it occurred last Sunday morning. I was absent-mindedly peeling an orange at the breakfast table when suddenly I heard Bach harpsichord music coming from the hidden wall speakers. I grew more and more incredulous as the music continued. Was this really Bowdoin, the school Newsweek once branded "the citadel of fraternities"? Apparently, the tacit credo of this = Bowdoin's Higher Horizon Program - is let the Seniors eat cake - and that we do. Gone are the raucous suppers at the House with its unimaginative meals, gone is the preponderance of blank stares and empty beer cans on the morning of the night before, and even mitigated is the particular need to be a part of that undergraduate sub-culture. The Center aims at, and achieves, refinement. I cannot say that this peculiar institution is a beehive of intellectuality. Like most college students everywhere, Bowdoin students just aren't terribly concerned with the life of the mind. The talk, if academic, usually concerns seminars, Vietnam and the draft, or graduate school and the life beyond. The seminars, one of the Center's major educational innovations, are working out well. If nothing else, they free their members from the drudgery of memory and regurgitation - a phenomenon all too prevalent at College. For those who are interested, the seminars offer challenge and excitement. For those who aren't they are an easy way to concentrate on something else. Professor Emeritus Green's seminars on Ethics and Utopian Societies are proving that students can be far from apathetic given stimulating topics and topflight professors. One professed aim of the Senior Center is to bring the class back together after having scattered far and wide for three years; this it accomplishes. Friendships put into suspended animation are easily revived over meals. No doubt there is some tendency for fraternity brothers to stay together but the occasional chauvinism of fraternity life is nonexistent. No one thinks of people in terms of Beta, T.D, Zete. Another noteworthy innovation is the variety of entertainment that the Seniors enjoy. There is a large collection of books and records for anyone to borrow. There are language tables a few evenings a week and there is also the opportunity to meet and talk with visiting professors and lecturers. Certainly not least important is the freedom to have women in the Tower during reasonable parietal hours. Unfortunately, no mere summary of facets can substitute for the day-by-day experience of residing in the Tower. Not all is lux and veritas, but I think more so than in any other living unit that the College provides. Clearly, the Senior Center is a paradigm for underclass Houses and a reminder of what has to be done with them. 