@TITLE=SEC. Rusk’s Reply to Student Leaders Seen As Merely Rehash By Biklen
@BODY=In reply to the student leader'sletter to the President [New YorkTimes Dec. 30, 1966, Bowdoin OrientJan. 13, 1967] Dean Rusk, Secretaryof State, sent to the group asa whole what he felt to be ananswer. In fact it was little morethan a policy statement, a rehashof what has already been said.Douglas Biklen, Student CouncilPresident, who signed the letterto the president and who receivedDean Rusk's answer, was not overjoyedwith what the Secretary ofState had to say.First Biklen does not feel, asDean Dusk does, that the SEATOalliance is. an adequate justificationfor the enormous UnitedStates commitment in personnel,equipment, and money in Vietnam.Nor does he feel that a comparisonof the current Vietnam crises withthe Munich crises of 1938 is a validone, a comparison which Secretaryof State Rusk suggests.Second and most basic to DeanRusk's argument for remaining inVietnam, indeed for being therein the first place is the dominotheory. If South Vietnam falls.Laos and Cambodia will—follow,Thailand will follow them, nextMalaysia an dso on. SoutheastAsia would become a conglomerationof Chinese satellites. Biklendoes not subscribe to this theory.The countries of southeast Asia'deface the threat'Of CommunistChina, however, this ,and what welike to think of as the threatof communism are two very differentthings.China in its present positionwill be a threat to its neighborswhether it wins or loses in SouthVietnam. The fact that it loseswould do little to stop a policyof expansion or to lessen thepossibility of aggression. Americansseem unable to comprehendthe philosophy of Communism.Wr do not seem to realize that wecannot simply send soldiers in tofight the "communists" nor can wesay the "communists" are infiltratingfrom such and such place. Thefact is Communism is a philosophy.It offers something tangibleto many of these people. Partlybecause of its offers and partlybecause of built-up enmity towardthe. white man who once ruledover these colonies Communism'has widespread appeal, Biklenfeels that ' we do not realize thisfact, that we do not understandthat.this is a battle of ideologiesand not of arms.Biklen was disappointed In theanswers and in the way in whichthe government treated the inquiry;not as an expression of widespreadopinions but as an unimportantexpression of the unrestof a few. However, the Secretaryof State met with some forty-fiveof the students on January 31. Biklenwas unable to attend and thusfind out if there were answers tohis questions.Lastly, Biklen has of late receivednumerous letters of support forthe students' position, some fromas far away as Switzerland. He hasalso received complimentary copiesof The Arrogance of Power bySenator J. William Fullbright andThe Bitter Heritage by Arthur M.Schlesinger Jr.