@TITLE=Cultural Lag Basis of "The Gap"
@BODY=Student activists can rest assured that in Walter Lippman, who is well over 30, they will find an intellect that has not grown stagnant with the passage of years and the plaudits of the public. In a luncheon address on Saturday Lippman have his impressions of the "The Generation Gap." 
"The essential characteristic of the Generation Gap," he said what sociologists call 'cultural lag afflicts many members of the older generation, who insist on applying out-dated ideas and slogans to a constantly changing political reality. 
Lippman wasted no time in attributing the cultural lag to the present Administration with regard to its policy in South Vietnam. "Owing to the 'cultural lag' our spokesmen are still using the state concepts and rubber stamps of World War II. To explain a quite different kind of war against a quite different kind of enemy in a world which has become radically different from the 1940's. They would not be doing this if, as they have grown older, they had kept looking freshly at reality and had kept their eyes open and their attention fixed on the novelty and the change." 
The awesome developments in technology, he feels have left many members of the older generations in confusion. Nevertheless, he urged young people to "think charitably about your (their) fathers and grandfathers. For in the face of what has actually been happening they have, all of them, been unprepared and uneducated men. They do not understand the results of science and technology about them, and they don't even know how the products are made which they utilize." 
"What you may be able to get from those who are older than you is not the translation of modern knowledge, but the transmission, the handing on of that which is above knowledge, that is to say of human wisdom....To be wise is to have a certain familiarity with the deposit of human values that persist in any environment. When you look across the gap between the generations you will find on the other side some traces of this wisdom. If you have good sense, if you have an instinct for what will make life interesting, you will seize upon this wisdom when it comes your way." 