@TITLE=HCAC
@BODY=To the Editor:The 14 April edition of the Bowdoin Odious surely passed a new landmarkin its relentless groaing for the nadir of good journalism.Having valiantly resisted the temptation to seek permission to edit, requested articles, or print objective headlines, or report more than what accommodates editorial taste, or write rational editorials, our college gratis-dreadful has firmly establisheditself as a paragon of the intellectually puerile. 
For examples in order,consider the trunncated YAF statement, the marvelously relevant follow-upheadline, the blatant omission from the HUAC article of fact that mightsubstantiate your implications, and the remarkable wounded outcry of an editorial that relied on the same undemonstrated premises. 
About that YAF paper. I can speak freely of it. I wrote it. Now, really, sir, would it have taxed the initiative and dedication of your staff to request a condensation of the YAF, rather than toss the paper to the mercies of an editorial hatchet-man? And I assure you that the tenor of the YAF position could be better conveyed than by your ta "Capitalists Really works." Is this unreasonable unjust? 
About that HUAC article. I can speak freely of it. If you must criticize the report, wouldn't it be charitable to cite HUAC's evidence that does, indicate the Vietnam Week frenzy is a communist. Concoction, And wouldn't it be interesting to hear your reasons for the implicit denial that this migration of black-blanded lemmings to the big city is helping our enemies? Probably not, considering your first review of these subjects. 
Last but not least trite, your hurt and righteously outraged editorial. You accuse HUAC of witch-hunting, intolerance and McCarthyism. This is certainly not warranted by the innocuous article, and a reading of the whole forward of the report will give you more report. The general tone of the document impressed me as a model of unemotional, objective reporting (hint). 
The curious may read my copy if they so desire. 
Flinging a cheery goodbey in your direction, I comfor myself with the hope that the Bowdoin Odious will eventually emerge from its aura of general crumminess. 
Clark T. Irwin ' 70 