@TITLE=Administration Assailed On Peace Feeler Reports 
@BODY=The war in Vietnam, as one might expect received the greatest attention from both visiting college editors and professional journalists alike. The panel entitled "American Foreign Policy" was given extensive coverage in a number of major American newspapers, including The New York Times, and through several television networks. 
Richard Goodwin, who from 1960 to 1965 was special assistant to Presidents Kennedy and Johnson, charged that the United States is not making a significant effort to end the war in Vietnam through negotiations. He maintained that the United States has failed to carry out the key conditions for effective negotiations. The Administration has not pursued "vigorously and brilitantly"  every opportunity for peace talks and has "let opportunities go by." As the United States, furthermore has yet to formulate a concrete plan for the termination of the war, if the Viet Cong or Ho Chi Minh do agree suddenly to negotiate, "we are trapped in a situation which could be very damaging to us." 
Representing the Administration was Special Consultant to the President Walt Rostow. Rostow first asserted that the United States and North Vietnam are presently engaged in "what is or might turn out to be negotiating process" in the area of peaceful settlement in Vietnam. The statement was made in response to an inquiry about a report published recently in The Washington Post claiming that North Vietnam had, in December, agreed to talks ending the war but had reconsidered after the United States resumed its bombing raids in mid-december. Rostow's comments on the report were tentative to say the least, as he felt it was "a bad time to discuss any particular negotiating track." He continued: "Nothing has yet happened that would justify us as saying We have a serious offer to negotiate."
The issue of the American bombing of North Vietnam brought Goodwin and Rostow to sharply divergent stands. For Goodwin the bombing has not succeeded in "Brining Hanoi to its knees" and has not stemmed the tide of infiltration. Rostow claimed the bombing was "an important and significant element in limiting the level of infiltration." 
The basis of American involvement also brought disagreement. Rostow referred to the Southeastern Asian Treaty Organization which he said committed the U. S. to aid- ing the South Vietnamese. Goodwin called the SEATO treaty a "justification" which the United States employs when it is forced to look for reasons. Ray Mungo, editor of the Boston University News and moderator of the panel, criticized the United States, as the only country "which is being aggressive." 
Mungo's charge prompted the third member of the panel, John Roche, Special Consultant to President Johnson, to declare the college generation guilty of not having done its homework. He claimed that Communists can participate in the politics of Vietnam because they can vote, although they cannot run in elections. Rostow reinforced Roche's stand by observing that those furthest from the event "are the most philosophical."
Those who really understand what is at stake," he continued, "are with us."


