@TITLE=March for Peace: An Editorial Essay
@BODY=NEW YORK — That the earthunderfoot In Central Park wasstill damp from the spring thawthis weekend is perhaps symbolicof the freshness and hesitant hopefulnesswhich were Just some ofthe emotions some Bowdoin studentsfelt within and aroundthemselves during the Spring Mobilizationto End the War in Vietnamin New York City April 15.Central Park was the gatheringplace for tens of thousands ofpersons of varying degrees ofbeardedness and long-hairedness,of outlandish dress ranging fromdouble-breasted jackets which areso Jar out their shirts war skits andwearing overseas caps with "WarVeterans For Peace" embroideredon them, Negroes carrying signs""No Vietnamese ever called me anigger," trade unionists, men inbusiness suits... the pageant wasendless.And it was a pageant. On ahill on one corner of the SheepMeadow, a large crowd surroundeda group of students and adultsburning their draft cards. Closeat hand was a small band ofcounter demonstrators, who, afterabout fifty cards were turned toashes, quietly left.Other groups, acted out anti-AS DRAFT CARDS BURN:brightly painted with the slogansof "Love" or "Luv" or "Luve" and"Tune-in, Turn-on, Drop Out."BUT THERE WAS somethingmore than this. When the gaudinessof the some of the gatheringmasses, of the elaborate floats depictingsupposed American atrocitiesin the war, of the waving, yellow,green and red of Viet Congflags was absorbed, and some lessobvious characteristics of thecrowds could be observed.There were families, from babesj carried papoose-fashion by theirmothers to aunts, grandmothersand in-laws it seemed, and youngcouples, well-dressed, and not sowell-dressed college students. Andhigh school students, and menplaylets, an oldwoman earnestly made a pitch fora line of "peace" Mothers' DayCards. Banners of every degreeof elaborateness and size floatedor were carried high: "Even Maineis against the war," was crudelyscrawled on one. "Norwalk, Conn.Committee against the War" toppeda group suburbanites in knitdresses and tweedy jackets. Andnear the marshaling area for NewEngland contingents, was heldaloft the most moving comment Isaw. it was simply a large printof Picasso's brutally effective muralof the Spanish Civil War atrocity,"Guernica."MORE THAN MOST SLOGANS,songs or symbols which will comeout of the peace movement, the
most universal sign of support wasthe humble daffodil. This flowersprouted spontaneously in the labelsor pockets or ears or hair, ofmen, boys, girls and women, witha lack of self-consciousness but yeta strong feeling of pride in it whichsurprised me as I wore one givenme by one of scores of girls whocirculated through the ever-densercrowds distributing them freely.The little splashes of yellow didmore, I think, to dispel the relativegloom of the chilly, overcastday, than all the banners andposters.-At 1:30, we had barely movedtwo hundred yards from our gatheringplace, the air was chillier,but still spirits were high. Afterall, one sign read "Can the EasterParade Match This." Just beforewe moved onto Central ParkSouth, shouting was heard, anddozens of people broke off themain body and headed towardsSixth Avenue. Immediately, wethought that the previously unmarreddemonstration had finallyrun into a scuffle with counter demonstrators.What it actuallywas was that a group of Negroes,impatient to hear Dr. King andStokely Carmichael had surgeddown Sixth (The march was supposedto go down Madison) blockingtraffic, down to Times Square,(startling a group of pro-war pick-Those who make peacefulrevolution impossible willmake violent revolutioninevitable. —John F. KennedyThe scene is Central Park, Saturday.ets stationed there) and thenmoved, on the run, crosstown tothe United Nations Plaza, as Iheard later, and been enthusiasticallycheered as they entered thePlaza.ONCE ON CENTRAL PARKSOUTH, past the highest-rent district in Manhattan, the line openedup, and marshals had to urgeus to move faster and close ranks.At the Plaza, easily N.Y.'s moststaid and prestigious hotel, I waspleasantly startled to see a UnitedNations flag flying over the entrance.(This is at a hotel whichis so sure of itself, that nowhereon its walls does it announce itsname.)Sporadic clapping and cheersgreeted our contingents, and ourblanket banner reading "Bowdoinis against the war" was greetedonce by "Hooray for you, whoeveryou are!" and later by a couplewho said their son was at Bowdoin,exclaiming excitedly "Youmean there's really political activismat Bowdoin?" Well, I admitted,there was some.Every few blocks now, a small
band of counterpickets and hecklerspunctuated the air with shoutsof everything from "Support ourboys" to "Bomb Hanoi!" to "Traitors!"and "Commies!" Once, asthe parade was stopped to allowcrosstown traffic to get by, ourgroup was caught alone on a blockwhile the rest either moved aheadon the next block or was stoppedon the last block. Then the trafficwas stopped, and as a singlemass we watched the line of marchapproach us, their chants reverberatingweirdly down the avenue.That sight, as much as anythingI saw that weekend, symbolizedthe unity of all the men, women,boys, girls, students, workers, businessmen,veterans, young andold, whatever their ideologicalstripe, groping that day for someoutlet for their frustration in theface of the absurdity of thatstrange and dirty war 10,000 mileswest.WE WERE HEARING that themain participants were now speakingat the U.N., but for most of usthe disappointment of not being
There to listen, I think was subordinated to an intense desire to see the march through as a group. People we had marched next to for an hour became old friends. 
On topic of constant discussionwas estimation of just how manythousands we were. -On paper, it'seasy to tell the difference between100,000 and 200,000 massed peoplebut to be in the middle of a processionwhose head had alreadyreached its destination, and whoseend was apparently hours behindus, stretching from Central Parkto the United Nations, a distanceof some three miles.... Well, justthe thought of such a group- wasstaggering, let alone any mathematicalconsideration involved.With the end only blocks away,some of the aching in our feet andfatigue from the long drive fromBrunswick was less ignorable. On
A two block-swing down First Avenue, the largest and loudest bandof counterpickets briefly livened theproceedings, the lines moved fasterand then, there we were.HOW CAN I DESCRIBE IT? Inthe dimming light we could seeat the far end of the Plaza thespeakers' stand. The main speakershad long since gone. The presentone was a Puerto Rican nationalist.At our end, the crowds werevery light, people were leaving,sitting down in the street onrumpled posters, the wind off theEast River was sharp, the plazawas surrounded by sullen-faced,tired-looking cops. Even the desertedUnited Nations buildingslooked cold, and people at a literaturestand of the UJS. Committeeto Aid the National LiberationFront was packing up their wears.Some of us sat on the cold pavementawhile, then left.
Was it anticlimatic? Perhapswe had missed any real peak orcentral focussing for our energies.We wandered back to Grand CentralTerminal to get warm andtake a look at what the eveningpapers were saying. Grand Centralwas filled with sitting, talking,laughing marchers. We had takenover there, too, one of the largestrooms in the world.Had we been a moral and politicalfailure because of the disunityof the positions represented,as the papers said? I don't thinkso; if nothing else, the SpringMobilization had been a massivesession of group therapy where allof us talking with our feet couldwork off the intense sense of frustrationand powerlessness in theface of an obstreperous Administration.Effective political action bythe peace movement could comenext.