@TITLE=Droppings
@BODY=On Wednesday, October 26, another satellite will be launched into orbit around the Earth. This will be a communications satellite of the type that permits live television transmission of events from around the world. We have been fortunate enough to see various sports events such as boxing matches, skiing, and even the Olympic games through the use of these fantastic inventions, and we are told that in the near future live telecasts will be possible from every part of the world. This particular satellite's claim to fame is that it will enable television to take Southeast Asia and bring it to the living room of the average American family. While the impacts of this scientific achievement will be widespread, they will be felt nowhere as much as in the realm of sporting events. The particular sport I have in mind is a kind of war game, but one which lacks organization to the point of being unnamed. It is mostly played in a small country called Vietnam, but has attracted a limited number of participants in other nations of the world, its popularity fluctuating wildly. This notwithstanding, it has a great following and many avid supporters in the United States. The problems of televising this sport will be difficult to overcome as much because of their magnitude as because of their number and diversity. I am sure network television will make every effort to surmount these problems because, surprisingly enough, it seems that the greater portion of the players are Americans! The first problems encountered are the wide area covered by the play of the game, as well as the possible long duration. The entire country of Vietnam seems to be involved right now in a match of unusual duration (over 13 years already). It appears that the Americans involved are becoming more interested, as their participation is increasing. The most reasonable method of coverage seems to be to schedule a weekly series, and have live coverage with taped highlights made by each team during the previous week. Another obstacle might be the lack of rules. As mentioned before, the sport is unorganized, and there don't seem to have been any rules established as of yet. Real weapons are used, and there are no holds barred in their use. The most serious problem is the frequent exhibitions of unsportsmanlike conduct which are manifest in many areas. I suggest the institution of a penalty whereby all players exhibiting such conduct would be taken out of the game for a certain length of time, that depending on the magnitude of the offense. Thus torture might result in, say, a five day penalty: cold blooded murder of enemies, a week: murder of a non-participating citizen (e.g women and children), two weeks: and bombing of peaceful villages, four weeks. This is only to mention a few of the possible penalties. Other than this I don't think any rules would be necessary to make the game palatable to the viewing public, or indeed would such rules be beneficial. It is better to preserve the true sanguine flavor of the game. Who would sponsor such events? Probably much of the costs could be underwritten by the government, who could then use the commercial time to recruit new players. Maybe some of the industries that manufacture equipment for the game would like to be sponsors also. This leads us to the problem of commercial interruptions. It will be hard to schedule them for such a love and unrehearsed show, but certain time intervals could be set up, depending on the length of each show, after which there would be a commercial announcement regardless of the action on the screen. This might also help build suspense. Use of modern sports coverage techniques would be of particular merit. Stop-action and instant replay will continue to be used to illustrate particularly well executed plays. A sneak attack or ambush could be effectively recaptured and the announcers would have a chance to point out the tactics being used. These methods could help the judges in borderline cases of possible infractions of the rule. Many home viewers who have relatives or friends participating may be able to get second looks of the actions and fates of their respective kin. For example if my brother were to be shot or captured, I might at least have the double pleasure of being a witness to his last heroic participation in the game both live and via instant replay and stop-action. The glamour of television will serve as an extra added attraction to the many men who are right now considering taking up the sport. There is also the chance for extra pay for those players fortunate enough to do some guest shots or interviews. Some men might enlist with hopes of even landing acting jobs. Here is a wonderful opportunity to promote a new and valuable sport in America. The possibilities are nearly unlimited. There is no doubt that interest and support would be generated by allowing the viewers to see the game as it is really played, live and in color. I wouldn't be surprised if various political groups got together and organized teams to have smaller scale contests right here and American soil. There might even be a movement on college campuses across the nation to make it an intercollegiate varsity sport. Look at the character building effects this would have on our youth. No longer would children play those useless games of baseball and football, which are nothing but shows of brute force: no longer would our young adults wish to spend so much time in conformity producing schools and in such unproductive activities as dating - not when they have a chance to practice for such an individual character building sport. Clearly this would be of great benefit to society. We should all look forward to being able to sit in our warm living rooms with our cold beers enjoying the exciting action of this humanitarian and healthy new sport. Who knows, maybe some of us will even have the good fortune of being able to participate. 