@TITLE=MacArthur YAF ProWar Effort!
@BODY=In response to student agitationagainst the United States position in Vietnamduring the Spring Mobilization,the Bowdoin chapter ofYoung Americans for Freedom, aconservative campus group, has issueda position paper outliningreasons for that organizations supportof current policy.The paper presents three mainreasons justifying American involvement:( 1 ) the SEATO Treaty, of whichthe Republic of Vietnam is a protocolmember, obligates us to answera call for assistance from an attackedally; South Vietnam requestedthis aid; (2) armed aggressionmust be checked at everyoutbreak if a tide of war is to beavoided; (3) the United States hasa vital interest in preserving andencouraging freedom everywherein the world. Only the secondand third statements are arguable:the MacArthur YAF stands convincedof their correctness.The report also states that "whatis happening in Vietnam is butthe latest attempt of Asian communistpower to establish itshegemony over that continent. Itcannot be honestly maintainedthat the action of the 'NationalLiberation Front' is civil war, orsome ineffable nationalistic yearning."The pattern forged by theChinese Reds in the World War,and repeated in Korea, is againbeing tested in a probing of theFree World's resolve. Should theRed Chinese, through their puppets,succeed in overrunning all ofVietnam, the encouragement forfurther aggression, the pressure onneighboring nations to appeasethe victors, and the materialwealth and strategic position of
Southeast Asia would be greatprizes. The only sequel would bean ominous rampage of aggrandizement,which could be stoppedonly at a cost dwarfing that nowimposed upon us.""We are fighting not nationsas such, but a system of governmentthat is imposed by force,sustained by force, and is whollydependent on force for expansion.And expand it must, for by itsnature, the communist system cannever match the attractions offree capitalism. We would be theworst of fools to imagine that wehave no legitimate concern inAsia In Asia lies the only poweropenly embracing conflict as thesolution to its task of spreading
revolution. If we grant such apower free rein, we barter immediateease for ultimate misery. Thebattle, now running against theaggressors, must be pursued in amanner that leaves no doubt ofour intent, and to the end thatfurther aggression is clearly folly.""The MacArthur YAF, therefore,approves of an American commitmentin Asia. We maintainthat only a complete check of theChinese-supported invasion of theSouth by the North can makeclear our national resolve and restorethe sovereignty of the Republicof Vietnam. For a genuinepeace, for some measure of freedom,the fight must go on."
