@TITLE=Collegiate Press Reports From Vietnam: Chaplains Give Hawk's - Eye View
@BODY=SAIGON, South Vietnam (CPS)—One of Yale'sgreat courses is Edmund Morgan's review ofAmerican colonial history. Beginning with thePuritan fathers, Professor Morgan teaches thatour history has been deeply influenced by theearly Americans' view of themselves as a morallypure and righteous people—by contrast with thedecadent, corrupt sons of Europe.I didn't really appreciate what he was sayinguntil I had been in Vietnam for several monthsWhat finally brought the idea homeland left medepressed and" scared—was a series of interviewswith army and air force chaplains.There are over 430 American chaplains in Vietnam—some 320 protestants, more than 100 RomanCatholics, and three Jews. All are volunteers.I interviewed thirteen. Almost to a man, theirconsciences were aggressively clear about themoral rationale for the United States military commitment.That might be expected of chaplains. But whatsurprised and depressed me were the glowingterms they used to describe what is basically anagonizing, dirty business of making many peoplesuffer in order to prove a political point In theirview of the world, Americans are still the standardbearers of morality in the battle against evil.Cotton Mather would have recognized his descendantsinstantly.On the basis of these chaplains' interviews, a disinterestedobserver would have to characterize theAmerican approach to war as (a) saintly and (b)child-like. Consider the following four assumptions:(1) We are here to save the Vietnamese peoplefrom the evils of Communism. This theme wassounded by at least ten of the thirteen chaplains.The following quotes are representative, and inmy opinion the complete contexts would not changetheir import:"The Viet Cong are misguided zealots who havebeen given the wrong information aU their lives.What would you believe if you had, been taughtall your life that Americans are the aggressors?"—Chaplain Ross C. Wright, Conservative Baptistfrom Los Angeles."How can you call this war immoral? You can'tsay life is more important than personal freedoms,honor, integrity, and the dignity of human beings.The basic moral issue is: are these things worthdefending?-Father Thomas D. McGrath (knownto a less bellicose colleague as 'Quick Draw')Roman Catholic from Worcester, Mass."I see China as an emotionally disturbed society."—this from Chaplain Jack Keene, UnitedPresbyterian, who believes the United States has an obligationto protect South Vietnam from foreign domination."I'm not so concerned about the democraticprocess, but I think the clergy should be on theSide of right. Maybe the majority of the Vietnamesepeople do support the Viet Cong, but if sothey do it out of ignorance and fear . . . It's likeour American race riots. The police at Wattsweren't very popular, but they, were right."—Orville McCormack, Assemblies of God, OklahomaCity.McCormack continues, "It seems to me these(civilian clergy protesting the war) would ratherswitch than fight. This is anathema to the churchbecause we have always been known for fightingevil . .."McCormack. an air force chaplain, says some ofthe men who come back from bombing missionsbreak down and cry over mistakes they have madein hitting the wrong village or striking innocentcivilians. He concludes, "But to compare these accidentswith cold-blooded Viet Cong atrocities is tocompare a man who has had 'a car accident with akiller who goes downtown and machine guns twentypeople . . . GI Joe is a healer, not a killer. We'renot here to kill people but to keep them frombeing killed, not to conquer but to free, not to takebut to give our lives in order that they mighthave . . . 'Greater lave hath no man than this, thata man lay down his life for his friend.'Chaplain Charlie Mills, Virginia Baptistry"little mere succinct: "The VC are intimidatingthese people and Christianity historically hasfought to aid the oppressed."Lest the lighthearted laugh too loud, it shouldbe said that there is some ground for the attitudesof most of these men, some truth in what they say.But when all is said and done, in many parts ofthis country saving the Vietnamese from the evilsof Communism boils down to saving them fromthemselves—whether or not they are Communists.The Viet Cong may be zealots, but few Vietnamesewould call them misguided. Personal freedomand human dignity may be more important thanlife to Americans, but Saigon and Washington areasking many Vietnamese to trade their lives for afreedom and dignity they never had. China maybe an emotionally disturbed society, but at the momentmany Vietnamese are more frightened of theUnited States.McCormack's comparison becomes a little fuzzywhen we recall that the policy of widespreadbombing is itself no accident, and his eloquentstatement of American intentions might not soundquite so convincing to Vietnamese widows and orphans.Christianity has always thought of itselfas fighting to aid the oppressed, but even in Americanthere have always been those who didn't seeit quite that way; can we blame a VietnameseBuddhist for not getting the point?(2) We should be given credit for our good intentions,for sincerely wanting to help the Vietnamesepeople. Most American officials in Vietnamlike to talk about how America is helping theVietnamese. The chaplains were no exception; theyreferred most frequently to the military's civicaction programs.It is true, there are a staggering number ofhopelessly altruistic Americans running aroundVietnam. By old colonial standards, they are sheddingmuch blood and many tears with little toshow for it in the way of dollar profits. GI's buildorphanages, support poor families, put hundreds ofkids through school, hand out chocolate bars thelength and breadth of Vietnam, and often makeconsiderable personal sacrifices in the process.But with child-like naïveté and almost totalIgnorance of what a century of colonialism hastaught the Vietnamese, they expect to be thanked.They expect the Vietnamese to take their goodworks and good intentions at face value. Less thana fraction speak more than a few words of Vietnamese,and many have no idea why their generosityis often met with suspicion. In areas wherehandouts have become. the rule, some Americanscomplain that "the Vietnamese act like we owe itto them."(3) The Viet Cong should not use sneaky tricksto kill American soldiers. The thought caricaturedhere runs just below the surface of many Americanconversations. The implication is that warought to be played by the rules, as defined in theUnited States Code of Chivalry.Chaplain Wright, with quiet indignation, told ofa Viet Cong mine that had inflicted five casualtieson a 1st Air Cavalry Division unit the week before.A whole platoon had walked over the mine withouttouching it off, but somehow one of the last menunwittingly detonated it. The chaplain told thestory as if the Viet Cong had deliberately lulledthe Americans into a false sense of security andthen attacked from behind.He also showed me—in the midst of an explanationof how people at home have a distorted viewbecause the press never tells about Viet Congatrocities—a UPI story of a Viet Cong atrocity.A.young American captain had been killed tryingto clean out an enemy cave in the Central Highlands.A North Vietnamese soldier had come outof the cave, pushing a woman and child in front ofhim. Not wanting to hit the human shields, theAmerican lowered his gun, whereupon the NorthVietnamese shot him point blank in the head.It was a dirty thing to do, and I like it no betterthan the young American's mother would. But tosuggest that it wasn't fair, and that the NorthVietnamese soldier was an evil ogre because hetook unfair advantage, is to make war into achild's game. (Tit for tat: within minutes the cavehad been blown with explosives and one GI estimatedover 100 Viet Cong and North Vietnamesewere buried alive inside.)You dear people who say the Viet Cong shouldnot use sneaky tricks to kill American soldiers,have you ever talked with a Vietnamese who saysAmericans should not be here in the first place,should not bomb and burn and loose their horribleinstruments of death on Vietnamese villages,should not seek to impose American solutions on apeople whose problems they do not understand.Only the soldier who sees himself as fairness personifiedwould think to complain of being killedunfairly.