@TITLE=Hilsman Cites Soviet Peace Bid Role
@BODY=The interests of the SovietUnion in a stable Asia might be"a possible crack in the door" inproducing negotiations betweenthe- United States and NorthVietnam. Roger Hilsman, Asst.Secretary of State for Far EasternAffairs from 1963 to 1964,claimed Sunday night at theSenior Center, that Soviet policysince the Cuban missile confrontation,in the view of Westernobservers, has been directedtowards avoiding another nuclearcrisis between the United States and theSoviet Union.

Thus, the Professor at the ColumbiaUniversity School of InternationalAffairs stated, abombing pause by the UnitedStates might lead to great pressureby the Soviets on the Hanoigovernment for a reciprocal moveof de-escalation, "deinternationalizing" the Vietnamese War andlessening the chances of a nuclear,confrontation between thetwo great powers.
Mr. Hilsman prefaced this conclusionwith an analysis of thecurrent Asian situation based onhis government experience and arecent fifteen-month world tour.
"The role of Communist Chinacould be that of an almost certainlyhostile power, when itemerges from its current internalturmoil." And while the strugglebetween the Maoists and theyoung Red Guards with a stakein "permanent revolution" andinstability on one hand, and thosewith a stake in stability, the military,bureaucracy, and peasantson the other, might result in thefall of Mao, there is no reason tobelieve that Communism will thusfall, asserted the West Pointgraduate and World War II O.S. S. veteran.

China Does Not Seek WarBecause of this, Hilsman didnot forsee the Chinese as seekinga third World War. He addedthat the Western powers must beextremely careful not to engagein any action, however intended,
which might be interpreted bythe Chinese as a direct threat.

A further factor to be consideredin arriving at a solutionto the Southeast Asian crisis, hecontinued, was emerging nationalisms.These must be understoodin the light of the fact thatcountries like Indonesia, with thefifth largest population, the thirdor fourth richest natural resourcesand its strategic locationbelow the Indochinese landmass, are potentially great powers. The nationalism of these
countries is expressed in termsof the memories of many Asianstates as colonies, and thus rejectingfurther Western influence,fear of neo-colonial re-institutionof political influence, which toughsincere and genuine, is oftenfilled with "Marxist verbiage" directedagainst "Wall Street," theC.I.A. and the Pentagon.

"Control Their Destinies"Other factors of nationalisminfluence Asian politics: the aspirationfor modernization, tocontrol their own destines, "withour understanding and sympathyor over our dead bodies," said
Hilsman, and also the fact thatthese emerging Asian nationalismrepresent hundreds of millionsof people whom the Westernpowers cannot ignore.
When Hilsman discussed hisrecent visit to Vietnam, hepointed out that leaders of otherSoutheast Asian countries, hadprivately told him "they are happyto see the Seventh Fleet inAsian waters, but are distressedby what they see as inept, stupidleaders of the United Statescausing the growth of Chineseambitions by 'Americanizing' thewar."
According to Hilsman, the airwar in Vietnam will not be"decisive." Because the Viet Congand Regular North Vietnamesetroops require only fifty-five toeighty-five tons of supplies aday, carried in only one trawler,four or five sampans, fourteentrucks, 340 elephants, 175 jeeps,40D bicycles, 400 mules or 1125men, against a bombing cost todate of $6 billion directed againstthis trickle of supplies. On theground, the former Director ofthe State Department Bureau ofIntelligence and Research said,the United States. is doing well against theViet Cong and North Vietnameseregulars, but less well against theguerillas.
Pacification Yet UnsuccessfulThe story of the much-publicizedpacification program istold by the number of teams —
six — working in one provinceagainst the number of villages;160; even in villages with pacificationteams, security cannotbe guaranteed: Hilsman relatedof staying in a heavily garrisoninto which it would be unlikelythat a guerilla could infiltrate. Aman who had given informationto the American was found withhis throat cut.
"In many of these villages, theViet Cong cadre is a native of thevillage" implying that he wouldnot readily be betrayed. Hilsmansaw a long road to winning theallegience of the Vietnamesepeople with medical, educationaland agricultural help.
Politically, Hilsman claimedthat most Vietnamese "sit ontheir hands," considering themselvesneither pro-Communistnor pro-American. Even those whoare anti-Communist often havean attitude of letting the Americando the fighting, since theyare there.