@TITLE=ROTC Should Remain but Without Credit
@BODY=One of the great dangers in the debate over ROTC is that the highly emotional issue of the Vietnam war will lead people to strike out unthinkingly against all manifestations of the Armed Forces. A rational analysis of ROTC can begin from either of two premises. The first, which will be assumed in this article, is that Armed Forces are necessary for the security of this country and that militarism, though always a danger, is not' a great enough threat to warrant drastic attacks on the Army. Next week, we will explore the other premise that Vietnam is not a temporary aberration but a permanent aspect of an American policy that can be changed only by extreme attacks on the military.Professor Edward Pols has been involved in attempts to limit academic credit for ROTC for at least ten years. He believes there are two problems involved, the course content and the issue of credit. Pols thinks the attempt to Improve the content of the courses is misguided,' because the ROTC is basically a pragmatic rather than intellectual program. The ROTC curriculum, in his opinion, is much more like that of a vocational school than of a liberal arts college and for this reason credit should not be given.However, people have reacted to this by attempting to improve the quality of the courses, and Pols thinks this is a waste of time for both students and teachers. The Army should admit the purposes of the program and limit training to what is actually necessary to train an officer in his skills, and assume that the student is getting a liberal education elsewhere and that they of the Army, need not contribute to it. Pols believes that a much more efficient way of producing officers would eliminate ROTC training during the year and limit it to summer camps where it could be done intensively. He believes that if faculties were willing to cooperate with the Armed Services some sort of program might be set up, but so far faculties have shown no interest in constructive efforts to improve the ROTC program. He thinks the present attacks on ROTC will result only in the better colleges' being removed from the program leaving it to be manned by people from the state universities and agricultural colleges. He thinks people have been confusing their views on the Vietnam war with the question of how to staff the Armed Forces once you grant that we must have- them, and he thinks it is puerile to suppose we are not going to have an armed establishment. He disagrees with those who claim that it makes no difference where the officers come from ; for one thing, a lot of staff work gets done by younger people who can influence policy a great deal even though they have no substantive power of their own.Major Edward Langbein, Executive Officer of Bowdoin's ROTCdetachment, denied that the program had no intellectual merit, because
the course on American military history does fill a gap in the regular curriculum. He feels strongly that the present ROTC program is the most effective means of recruiting officers from liberal arts colleges. "It is spread out over the four years to five minimal interference, and a summer program would discourage those students who couldn't afford to give up three summers." Langbein likes the theory of a summer program because of what it could accomplish, but he thinks it is impractical for students. The present program is the most feasible one in spite of its inefficiency because of its attractiveness to students. Langbien believes the Armed Services need ROTC officers because OCS and West Point cannot supply enough officers and also because of the liberalizing effect they have on the services. "People are naive to assume that officers act according to specific orders in every situation. Most things are left to individual initiative. Orders form very general guidance." He claimed that ROTC officers can make a significant difference both in the Army's relations with people and in its policy. Although most effort has been directed towards removing academic credit from ROTC, Major Langbein suspects that many people would just as soon see ROTC gone completely. He believes that many people want to demonstrate their unhappiness with the government and with the war in Vietnam and that ROTC provides a very vulnerable target because of the ease with which it can be damaged. He thinks there is a much more significant reason behind the attacks also. Some people reason that if we reduce the size of the military we could not get involved in conflicts. There people blame restless people in the military for our foreign involvements rather than policy makers in Washington. Professor Herbert Coursen served for five years in the Air Force after receiving his commission through Amherst's ROTC program. "I have no doubt that ROTC is one of the principle sources of officers for the Vietnam war to which I have been opposed for several years." "But I don't think America wants to create a totally professional army isolated from the liberalizing tendencies of colleges like Bowdoin, Harvard, and Yale. There is already a dangerous gap between civilians and the military. Elimination of ROTC would only serve to widen that gap and further encourage the kind of professional army which produces dictators. "As bad as it is on every count, we can only hope that Vietnam is a temporary aberration on America's part. Certainly we civilians want to curb and control the power of the military over our lives, but we won't necessarily do so by encouraging the development of an Army of American mercenaries. Liberal arts graduates are certainly not a panacea, but I think the influx of graduates into the Army keeps minds open." Coursen also pointed out that the ROTC detachment has 
contributed a great deal to Bowdoin. Majors Sutton and Laigbein have offered a senior seminar on Vietnam, and tliey have always been willing to discuss issues involving the military. Coursen does not agree with those radicals who say ROTC is simply
the source of a pool of officers to fight wars for the military-industrial
complex, though he does see some justification for this claim. He 
believes that the ABM system is a much greater symptom of the lack of proper priorities in this country, and that students would be better advised to do something about ABM than try to end ROTC. Dean Edward Geary says many problems begin to emerge as the issue of ROTC's status is examined. First, there are serious questions about the nature of the program itself. Could its goals be accomplished in a two year program or at summer camps rather than in the present four year system? One difficulty in offering a ROTC program with no credit is that the demands on student time can become intolerable. But  he said that a liberal arts college such as Bowdoin has specific ideas of what constitutes a liberal education and within this framework it is incredible that ROTC should receive credit. Two problems the College faces in making ROTC extracurricular involve scholarships and control of the program. If the program is significantly altered the College will have to insure that students will receive scholarships to replace ROTC grants. Geary also wondered whether the faculty would be able to maintain its present powers of supervision of the program if it were to become extra curricular. 