@TITLE=ROTC Critics Respond; College Function Debated
@BODY=The college and the university are in an excruciating predicament we say. Then like reasonable human beings we resort to hysteria. When the times demand searching questions, we respond with incantations. When the situation demands new ways, we respond by ensconcing ourselves in the old ruts whether they be the latest SDS scandal the revolution or the enemy nearest at hand which is usually ROTC. Thus we remain paralyzed in the grip of our incantatory impotence, letting our predicament become our Medusa. We have surrendered the power to stare down our difficulties. We have even surrendered the power to examine ourselves for even nightmares are easier to fear than the fact that our beds are burning. But we must wake up if we are to survive. That means, first of all, that we must search ourselves with difficult questions that transcend the petulancy of gossip about either revolution of moderation We have been asleep so long that the old words do o mean anything. Even words like racism or imperialism or atom bomb only arouse conditioned responses because we do not know the value of our own lives. Therefore we must begin anew. We must learn to be both subjective and objective, for true objectivity comes only with commitment. In this process we might be led to discover that even the dumb facts of our political selves form into coherent patterns. We might even be led to the consideration of such questions as these: Is Vietnam merely an aberration on America's part as Mr. Coursen hopes? or does it not fall into a larger pattern of events like napalm raids over Guatemala and Venezuela, U.S support of military dictatorships throughout Latin America, and the huge profits garnered by American corporations throughout and at the expense of the entire Third World? Does it not fall into a larger pattern manifested also by the treatment of the black race at home? Can we, in fact, conclude that our country is a peace-loving nation interested that Vietnam is a mistake or if it is, the mistake we thought it was? Then there is the college. Are we in fact, entitled to feel that we are privileged neutrals in this game of contradictions? Or don't we in fact have a stake too and with whom? Does not the presence of ROTC on campus belie our neutrality as an institution which exists only for learning sake? Do we serve the people of the world by keep ROTC on campus as a supplied of military men? Or is it that ROTC doesn't really matter, since it is only the manifestation of something deeply wrong with our society which we are too lazy to think about? If violence isn't the answer and reason is, then why aren't we thinking? 