@TITLE=Editorial Shortsighted
@BODY=To the editor: your analysis of the positions of the College as a community and as a corporation was reasonable, although shortsighted. You state that a corporation is chartered to fulfill certain functions within society and it is not proper for any special interest group ... to turn that corporation to its own private ends. You are assuming here that any action on ROTC by any group, trustees, faculty or students, is to serve that group's own ends. This is a faulty judgement. In any corporation the actions taken by those in charge are for the benefit of those who ultimately control the business, namely the stockholders. We the students are stockholders in this corporation - Bowdoin College. The faculty and trustees are investors too. What is beneficial to this community, for it is this community of stockholders who operates the corporation is beneficial to the corporation. ROTC is not beneficial to the corporation. ROTC is an arm of the military; a military which is too large; a military whose Joint Chiefs of Staff have more influence over the President of the United States than do the voting public. The military is propagating the Vietnam war; a war which has faced more and greater taxes on the citizens of the United States. It has reestablished the draft as a threat to all eligible men, particularly to college students. Need I remind you that three Rhodes Scholars have been recalled to their Country's Service"? Furthermore it has sapped financial resources from more important places. I find it extremely ironic that you could be so blind to your lead article of the same issue "Federal Gov't Cuts Aid Funds." Why have these funds been cut to colleges? Because the Vietnam war needs more money. Is anything more ludicrous? Those students who will be denied financial aid at any and all colleges they apply will in effect be denied entrance. What can they blame ultimately? The Vietnam war. Perhaps these students will enter the working force to earn money too enable them to enter college. However, more likely than not they will be drafted to fight in a war which has already guided their lives far too long. I don't believe that it's hard to see that students are being hurt by the war. On the other side of the coin, the faculty will be denied the privilege of communicating with these young men and perhaps widening their own lives in the process. Further more, many sons of the faculty are in similar predicaments. It isn't hard to see how crucial the effects of the Vietnam war are on all of us: faculty and students. SDS attacks ROTC because it's an arm of the military which is able to cripple the country financially and upset the lives of its citizens. I remind you that Vietnam would not be what it is today if our military were not as powerful as it has been in the past. Santo Domingo and the Bay of Pigs wouldn't have even gained recognition if we hadn't had such an idea yet monstrous power as our standing military complex. It is time that we heeded George Washington's prophetic words that a large standing army is a threat to the citizenry of the United States of America. More power to the SDS and to the faculty. May they cripple this military oppressor in any way they can. 