@TITLE=Snowy Beach Court Appeals Labeled "Study in Deception"
@BODY=By the time anyone got around to announcing "Operation Snowy Beach," a mere month before it was to occur, all legal opposition had been effectively forestalled. The Brunswick-Bath Times Record labeled the timing of the announcement 'shabby, underhanded, and calculated." Maine Parks Commissioner Lawrence Stuart helped out by declaring that "Had anyone asked us, we would have gladly told them that we had such an agreement." It would have been like asking a bank president whether he had granted permission for a robbery at his bank to occur at some later date. How could anyone know the right question? Have you granted permission for a NASA rocket launching at Reid State Park? No, Mr. Stuart would have said, proud of his stewardship. Are you planting palm trees along the Beach? No. Are you importing a small herd of water buffalo to cavort in the lagoon next summer? No, try another one, Mr. Stuart would say, knowing that his secret was safe unless, through a stroke of antic genius, someone popped the right question. The Navy, of course, had already told Mr. Dickens of the Park Commission not to breathe a word. This in spite of the Commission's failure to consult with any agency higher than itself in making the decision to assign a state park, deeded to be "maintained forever" as a place of public recreation, for military uses. The Navy was to use the land free of charge, even while spending a modest $35000000 on its operation. And the Navy would be free of any responsibility for any damage it might inflict upon the park. Anything that happened beyond the Government's control would become automatically the fault of a State stupid enough to agree to a you win, we lose contract. But State officials, including the Governor, have been so brainwashed by the system they have evolved within that they agreed to Catch 22. "We felt it was the Navy's responsibility to make any necessary announcements," Stuart said. "After all, it's their operation." But not their park, Mr. Stuart. By the time we could find lawyers, have them prepare their cases and make all the proper motions to get the issue into the courts, it was already too late. Taking an issue to court runs into two further obstacles. First, the larger issues can't seem to emerge - why risk Reid State Park for someone's crackpot idea of a military operation? It doesn't matter in a court of law that the military picks our pockets for 65c out of every tax dollar we spend, and wants more - "Free Reign" (to quote Stuart) over a lovely and previously unspoiled tract of public land. It doesn't seem to matter in a court of law that the military, posing as the defenders of all ecosystems, have a pretty sloppy record, ranging from the introduction of poisons into the food chain of Southeast Asia, of rats into populated areas there, rats bringing the first cases of Black Plague to mankind since the 17th Century, and of a vast quantity of radioactive water into the Thames River, New London, Connecticut in December, 1971. What does it matter to a court of law that only 32 miles of Maine's 3600 mile coastline are still reserved for public use? The second difficulty is that, regardless of what we learned in Civics classes, we are not a government of laws but of men. And those men are judges. And these judges, being men, strive to simulate impartiality while actually licking the hand that has placed a black robe on their shoulders. Witness Mr. Mitchell's blatant manipulation of the judicial system during last Spring's Vietnam Veteran's protest in Washington. In the State Court, Judge Knudson squirmed and tried to get plaintiff's lawyer, Cushman Antony, to explain how the judge could get out of the mess he was in without making a decision. The plaintiffs were attempting to prove that the Park Commission exceeded its authority in granting permission for Snowy Beach. Mr. Stuart maintained, under oath, that the government's catch 22 clause meant that a typhoon might hit. The elements were separately listed in the government's contract, and one might suggest that the last typhoon to belt into the coast of Maine must have struck at some time prior to the Age of Aquarius. The State had waited for the Navy's announcement with superb anticipation. With 20 days in which to respond to any action brought against it, the State knew that by refusing to waive that period it could render the case moot. Knudson stated gratuitously that had he been called upon to rescind the Park Commission's permission; he wouldn't have done so anyway. And, he added, the fact that the Navy is on its war hasn't influenced me one iota. Ho, ho, ho. In a tight spot, hoping to avoid a controversial decision, he groped for Catch 22, and found it. In spite of the Navy's accident clause and in spite of the dunes being the only area of the Park ruled off limits in any written agreement anyone could produce between Navy and State, and in spite of expert testimony regarding potential damage to the Park's fragile woodlands, Knudson termed the plaintiff's case "pure speculation." Knudson would have had us present evidence regarding an accident before the accident happened. We couldn't do that, anymore than we could ask Mr. Stuart the right question. Catch 22. Judge Edward Gignoux of the Federal Court was more impressive. Handsome, urbane, blessed with a sense of humor, clean favored and imperially slim, he bent over his bench backwards to be impartial, then delivered an opinion which ignored completely the testimony of botanists and heart soil experts and embraced eagerly a Navy document issued on 12 January 1972 10 days before the exercise was to hit the beach asserting that no Environmental Impact Statement was required by a non-major operation involving 33 ships and 15 thousand men, planes, submarines, helicopters of all varieties, and about everything except Henry Fonda as a skipper and William Bendix as a cook from Brooklyn. The judge's opinion rested exclusively on arrogant testimony delivered by a Navy Lieutenant Commander who could have doubled for Captain Queer. "Yes, the Navy has constantly assessed the environmental impact on the Park since the inception of this operation." Fact: the military hadn't even been aware of the ecological importance of the salt-marsh until environmentalists pointed it out in January 1972. The Marines agreed to stay off the salt-marsh, but that was only a verbal agreement and the Marines ended up using the salt-marsh as helicopter landing zone command post and mortar sit. Judge Gignoux cited the Navy's consultation with many groups, including the Army Corps of Engineers. Fact: when the Engineers asked the Main Environmental Improvement Commission, the State's highest ecological agency, to approve Snowy Beach, EIC disapproved 4-1. The judge merely confirmed what we know already - the military can do anything they damn well please. They can conduct a cold weather exercise in temperatures ranging from 16-48 degrees above zero, designed to test cold weather gear and equipment with gear and equipment of Korean vintage, already subject to far more extreme conditions (Korea, 1950-51). They can punish Marines, many of them Vietnam veterans, for anti-war views, by sending them to Maine. Mainers should resent the insult. The commander of the operation, Vice Admiral Vincent Paul de Poix, can announce a day early that the Navy will win its case and can express a desire to drive the NY Times out of business because it opposed Snowy Beach. The latter won't happen, of course, but only because some blockhead up the chain with more stars on his shoulders than de Poix will misfile Operation Anti-Times and it will ultimately be leaked to Jack Anderson, who will save the Times with a single trenchant column. By this time that courageous environmentalist Edmund S Muskie, who refused to intervene in Snowy Beach will be gearing up for another shot at the White House in election year 1984. We tried in the courts, but we found them to be part of the system too, the subtle linkage of interests between politicians like Muskie, judges like Gignoux, and admirals like de Poix. They are part of the same process, virtually, the same man, part of the historical movement described by Barry Commoner in the Closing Circle: The world is being carried to the brink of ecological disaster not by a singular fault, which some, clever scheme can correct, but by the phalanx of powerful economic, political, and social forces that constitute the march of history. Anyone who proposes to cure the environmental crisis undertakes thereby to change the course of history. Our efforts in court didn't deter the onward grind of this phalanx one iota. What can? 