@TITLE=The Lord Be With Us
@BODY=The thirteen of us who had just been arrested for bringing our Friend's Quaker Meeting into Reid State Park sat slightly crammed together in the back of the paddy wagon. A State Police officer addressed us from up front by the door. "I take it that you are aware that you have just violated park rules and regulations, that you have willfully trespassed in a public park which is closed to the public." We looked at each other. What was there to say? It was Cushman Anthony, an attorney from Portland, who answered. "We have violated no law," was his response. The legal right of the marines to land at Reid State Park had been decided the previous week in the courts. For many of us, there were many questions left unanswered. Why had the Navy and the Department of Parks and Recreation not released the information about the operation to the public until four months after Snowy Beach was given the go ahead by the state? Why did the Navy choose Reid State Park instead of one of its own reservations? Was it sensible to risk any ecological damage to the park? Did Korea vintage gear really need retesting? Was Snowy Beach on fact to be a $35 million public relations endeavor? Even before the matter came to court, the Maine Vietnam Veterans Against the War had planned to be on the beach when the Marines landed. It was not to have been a violent confrontation of any sort. It was to have been an act of symbolic defense of the unspoiled natural beauty and peace which are still permitted to exist in such few places on earth. It was intensely personal feelings which were causing us to act, feelings which somehow do not lend themselves to adequate, articulate explanation. These sentiments, felt by people across the state, pulled the remnants of the peace movement together once more. The action planned for the beach was abandoned as a broader range of people became involved. After the court decision was handed down, we planned a peace vigil for Saturday at the Park and a Friends' Meeting for Sunday. We had told the police about Saturday's vigil and as we arrived we were greeted by a sizable force of state troopers. They milled around the gate inside the park boundary, occasionally crossing into our group to chat or get some coffee. People were arriving from Hancock County, Bangor, Portland, and other areas. We had to park several miles away and come in by foot or in a VW bus, and each time a group walked or drove past Marines on the road, peace signs, and other greetings, were exchanged. We later learned from one group of Marines that they had been told that 300 college kinds would be waiting on the beach to prevent the landing. The congeniality between the two opposing forces seemed to surprise everyone. Perhaps fifty percent of the Marines present were Vietnam veterans and most of them had less than six months left in the service. Many of these, we learned, had been sent on Snowy Beach as a kind of punishment for refusing to readjust to the spit, polish, and protocol of stateside duty after their tour in Southeast Asia. When they heard of the pending court injunction on the cruise up the Atlantic Coast, they made their collective support of the opposition to "Snowy Beach" known. The situation aboard the troop ships sounded quite amusing. The vigil lasted from mid morning into the early afternoon, and by that time the activists among the group had formed a separate unit. They walked down through the woods to the beach, and along the beach until the State Police stopped them. The police issued tow warnings, and then arrested the Saturday Eighteen. They were taken to the Bath jail, and the rest of us broke off the vigil to return to Bath and arrange bail for them. All but one were released; he refused bail and was transported, handcuffed and in the company of two sheriff's deputies, to the County Jail to await a hearing on a Tuesday. I went out to the park early on Sunday morning. There was a strange stillness compared to the noise of the helicopters and machine guns firing on Saturday afternoon. I walked down to the rocks, just outside the park boundary, and gazed out at the cold, gray hulks - several destroyers, a helicopter landing ship, a heavy cruiser and, further out, the carrier Franklin D Roosevelt. Perhaps I was wrong. Perhaps this wasn't Reid State Park at all. Perhaps this tract of land was actually Walter Reid Naval Base. I walked into the area past where the "Park Closer" signs were posted and found the group of five Marines with whom I had talked quite a bit on Saturday. One was a Mennonite from Minnesota; he had already asked us if he could join us at the Quaker Meeting. I invited them all and then, after refreshing my memory as to how bad C-ration coffee really was, departed for the meeting. Everyone was slow in arriving. Cushman and Carol Anthony and several of the others were walking in carrying a small cardboard sign which read, "Friends (Quaker) Meeting for Worship, Come Unto the Lord." They stopped to invite any Marines they saw, but it was apparent that those who might have come feared some sort of reprisal.
The Meeting began in the traditional circle of silence. Among the fifty odd members were the five Marines. The State Police also observed the silence, but kept their distance and looked on curiously. The quiet was interrupted by an occasional message from one of us. The meeting somehow steadied me, and when the military machines began to wind up in the background, they seemed far away. One of the small helicopters, a "Huey," approached us at a level just above the treetops, and canted one side down as it flew over. He made several passes, probably filming the group. I wondered if this was what it felt like under a "Huey" rocketing and strafing a small village in Vietnam. I wondered if that particular pilot had made some gun runs.
It was Carol Anthony who said, "The Lord be with us as we carry a part of this meeting into our Park." The possibility of entering the Park and being arrested had been on everyone's mind, Carol had had a long conversation with the Admiral on Saturday, asking if we might have the service inside the Park, and have Marines attend if they so desired. He had refused and so the options were clear. One of my Marine friends had told me that they were not "authorized" to leave the Park. I suppose that he was "trespassing" as soon as he joined our Meeting. The thirteen of us were placed under arrest, frisked, informed of our Constitutional rights and loaded aboard paddy wagons. We walked past a movie camera single file, stating our names. One of the officers muttered, "I'd rather arrest criminals than you people."The weekend duty police officer at Bath were the same ones that we had dealt with on Saturday. They were somewhat confused at seeing several of us from the "outside" on Saturday and on the "inside" on Sunday. We were locked into the cell blocks, men and women separated, and bail proceedings began on the "outside." It was a rather interesting bunch that had been arrested. Among us was a seventy-four year old World War I veteran who had seen the heavy fighting in the Argonne Forest and Belleau Wood, and his lovely, gentle wife. Cushman Anthony, the built-in attorney for the group, was in and out of "lockup," making arrangements for bail. With his wife in the women's section were a middle-aged lady from Portland, a doctor's wife from Bath, and two young girls. With us in the main cell block were a teacher from the adult education center in Portland, a Quaker minister from Bangor, two other young men, and myself. I wanted to refuse bail for several reasons, but I wasn't sure if I could go it alone. The bail commissioners descended like vultures for then- ten dollars a person fee for coming to bail us out. I wondered how someone who didn't have that much, let along the $100 cash bail demanded, ould have felt, especially if his hearing date was not so soon as ours was to be. Ralph Grun, the minister from Bangor, and Bob Crotzer, from Portland, also decided to refuse bail, and after the others left, we were locked into three individual cells. Later in the afternoon, the same sheriffs deputies took us — without hand cuffs — up to Auburn.
Ralph and I were being processed together by two deputies. One went off to take a phone call and left the three of us locked in that particular area for an hour. The deputy with whom we'd been left was actually a part-time deputy and full-time bartender at the New Auburn Social Club. He invited us to come and have a drink with him "when we got out."
We were in a cell with three young men busted in the recent Lewiston drug raids, and with, one other serving six-months sentence for breaking and entering. He had been three and a half months without sunshine or fresh air. He paced around the table in the center of the cell for exercise, and then puffed away on cigarettes bummed from the others. The hot, stagnant air, the bars, the cold oatmeal for breakfast and beans for supper — all made for a memorable stay.
Tuesday morning, the four of us were brought back to Bath and again locked up, this time in a dungeon-like room in the basement of the courthouse. Just before the hearing we were released in the custody of our lawyer.
Tuesday night, a week later, it as reported on the news that Governor Curtis had requested that Attorney General Erwin drop the charges against us. Perhaps, in Cush Anthony's words, "we had violated no law." My own feeling, that a public park such as Reid, which is a place to be used for the enjoyment and celebration of life, should not be used to test equipment of men related to the business of destruction and killing of life, will remain regardless. I wonder if the state is not sure, finally, that it was wrong. 