@TITLE=FACULTY SPEAKS ON VIETNAM WAR
@BODY=VIETNAM WAR PolicyIn the forums by ProfessorsResenbrink and Levine the policyput forth was one against theUnited States involvement in theVietnam conflict. The main reasonsfor a pullout by the UnitedStates from South Vietnam are asfollows:1. To prevent communist expansion2. To contain China3. To permit the South Vietnameseto choose their ownform of government free fromexternal pressures and developments4. To end the useless killingWhich has resulted from thefutile war5. To back our idealogy and torefrain from supporting andforcing our form of governmentand ideas on the Vietnamesepeople.The late President John F. Kennedyonce supported the dominotheory, but after further studyreversed his stand. If this theorywere accurate and the UnitedStates holds the first domino, whatis there to prevent the seconddomino from falling over andstarting the chain reaction if the communistshould wage a war inanother Southeast Asian country.South Vietnam ElectionThe last election in South Vietnamis a mockery to freedom andself-determination. If the UnitedStates is going to fight under thisbanner, she should at least supportthe principle even if the peoplevoted against American interest.The United States makes manycommitments but supports onlythose which are to her advantage.In Vietnam the United States isthe imperialist or appears so, byhaving stepped into the shoes ofthe French.Stopping ChinaThe best way to prevent the expansionof China is to ring herwith small independent nationswhich are free of the West andable to determine their own destiny.The United States needs todo what France did in Algeria pullout. It is doubted, however,that the President has enoughcourage to do what is necessaryto rectify the situation.War DemonstratorsIn the United States it is notanti-American to oppose the warit is very American. The nationis responsible for what the Armydoes, and so there is anti-warfeeling; the Army is fighting theVietnamese and is fighting againstthe conditions for which they weresent there.
Pro Vietnam WarPolicy"I Am A Soldier," a film, andCaptain Glynn's forum portrayedthe pro war side of Vietnam FocusWeek: the supporters of theUnited States policy have statedthat we should be in Vietnam forthe following reasons:1. To prevent communist expansion2. To contain China and her influences3. To permit the South Vietnameseto choose their ownform of government free fromexternal pressures and developments.The United States in Vietnamfor those reasons, is helping toprotect, secure, and guide the destinyof these people. The SouthVietnamese want peace and theright to live in freedom. Plaguedby an old heritage of conflict, theneed for social revolution and reformhas become of great importance.The Viet-Cong have offeredto make this change; with Ho ChiMinn they have won the hearts ofsome*of the South Vietnamese. Althougha huge percentage of theSouth Vietnamese population isunder the control of the Viet-Cong,control does not mean consent,even though it may appear so.The job that the United Stateshas is to win the hearts and mindsof the South Vietnamese and togive them the opportunity to assertthemselves. This is our moral responsibility.The United States belongsand should be in the South:the war is a morally justified militaryeffort.On The BombingThe bombing is doing its joband aiding to win the war: it isreducing their will to resist. Reconnaissanceplanes fly hours overNorth Vietnam to make certainthat civilians are not hit. Whenthere is a possibility of hittingcivilians the attack is called off.
AtrocitiesThe United States is not committingatrocities in the conflict.The few atrocities committed byindividual American soldiers areseverely punished. It is also ofnote that American soldiers arcundergoing tremendous stresswhich results from seeing their
friends killed and wounded andfrom seeing the pain and hardshipswhich the South Vietnameseare enduring.
The war is necessary to checkcommunism. The late John F.Kennedy, when questioned as towhether or not he believes thedomino theory stated that if SouthVietnam were to fall the rest ofSoutheast Asia might fallow.The Vietnam focus weekwas originated by the StudentChapel Forum Committee as anattempt to initiate, coordinate andencourage discussion and dialogueconcerning the United States involvementin Southeast Asia. Duringthe week the primary efforthas been to present as many viewsas possible concerning the generalsituation. The chairman of thesub-committee which was responsiblefor the planning and presentationof the week is Ken Payson'68.When the Chapel-Forum Committeeinitiated Vietnam focusweek, it was expected that studentswould attend most of theevents and take advantage ofthem. Instead, many of the hawksattended pro war sessions whilethe doves attended their anti-warsessions.Debate MondayVietnam Focus Week will endthis Monday with a panel debateon the Vietnam question. Thepanel will consist of ProfessorResenbrink, Professor Levine, ProfessorSheats, Chaplain Glynn,Major Langbein, Captain Suttonand Mr. Brooks. The program willbe in Wentworth Hall at 7:30.