@TITLE=RESPONDS TO BREWER
@BODY=To the Editor
Since Mr Brewer rises to a point of information,
I am compelled to respond to that segment of his
letter questioning my letter in Time.
My letter did not ask that President Johnson
change his policy in Vietnam "because of . . . antiwar
protests" (although many of us wish he would).
I hope for something less extreme: a responsible response
to responsible protest. The President makes
it very difficult for us who wish to remain responsible
when he labels us "oussers and complainers"
or "nervous Nellies." Mr. Johnson's remarks at military
bases last week, however, suggest that he continues
to abrogate his responsibility to his citizenry:
particularly to those men being sent to die for the
vague and often contradictory policies of our government.
That the threat of a nuclear was "seems ridiculous"
to Mr. Brewer is of small comfort to me. While
I agree with Senator Dirksen that "nobody ever won
an earthquake," even Senator Dirksen might agree
that earthquakes happen. And, of course, Senator
Dirksen speaks of the Russians. Indeed, Russia
seems to have learned that it has more to lose than
to gain by atomic warfare. One of the tragedies of
the Vietnam situation is that it has prevented the
Russians and the Americans from discussing the
problems that we have in common. The Vietnamese
situation has only aggravated the differences which
might lead to Senator Dirksen's "earthquake." As
for the Chinese (about whom Senator Dirksen was
not speaking), they believe, according to their last
estimates, that they could come through an atomic
attack with half of their population alive and ready
to resist occupation. Half of their population equals
three hundred million (or one hundred million more
than the current population of the United States).
And even if the threat of nuclear war -is as remote
as Mr. Brewer suggests, our. current, course in-
Vietnam leads directly to war with China ( as, Felix
Green recently pointed out in a Bowdoin lecture). If
we cannot win a land war in a small nation like
South Vietnam (where we have almost total control
of the air, which we assuredly will not have over
China), by what insanity of national policy do we
insist on a land war with China?
As for the Vietnam adventure and "humanitarian
venture," I really believe that a .lad war with
China and/or World War III would compromise a
significant segment of humanity. Anyone suggesting
that humanitarian ventures cannot 'be started by
governments ignores not only his country's Declaration
cf Independence and Bill of Rights, but its recent
history: the Famine Relief Program after
World War I and the Marshall Plan after WorldWar II and Civil Rights 'legislation and O.E.O programslike Upward Bound and Head Start. One may,Disapprove of such humanitarian ventures, but thatdoes not mean that governments do not initiatethem. To argue otherwise, as Mr. Brewer does, isto reveal a more profound disbelief in our governmentthan will be found in those who oppose its currentpolicy in Vietnam.Finally, that anyone opposed to government spendingshould defend our policy in Vietnam strikes meas incomprehensible.Herbert R. Coursen, Jr.Department of English

