@TITLE=END CREDIT FOR ROTC
@BODY=Objections to ROTC at Bowdoin have recently increased to
the point that the Student Council on Monday voted to ask the
faculty to withdraw academic credit for Military Science
courses. In addition the Faculty is considering denying ROTC
the use of College facilities.
We support this renewed concern about the functions of
military training at a liberal arts college, and recommend a
complete evaluation of the Bowdoin Reserve Officers' Training
Corps in this light.
Academic credit should not be given to students for enrollment
in ROTC. Bowdoin's ROTC program fails to meet the
minimum requirements of academic quality. Although military
education is not necessarily incompatible with rigorous academic
standards and creative thought, those who argue that ROTC
is deficient in intellectual substance and thus not acceptable as
part of the Bowdoin curriculum are correct.
The further conclusion that ROTC should not be permitted
in any form does not follow from the non-intellectual quality of
ROTC instruction. ROTC without credit might still be allowed
on campus.
Other arguments have .been advanced for the elimination
of ROTC. One is that students enrolled in ROTC cannot express
personal opinions on Vietnam and other political issues. This" is
simply not true. As this week's detailed article on ROTC explains
there are no such-restrictions on ROTC student's freedom
of speech.
A second objection is the connection of the Vietnam War
with ROTC. This is true in the sense that any ROTC student
may be^ent to Vietnam. If he objects to this, he should not
join. However, to eliminate ROTC because of. opposition to the
Vietnam War, comes close to violating a concept of academic
freedom, 'the sense this would place the college in the position
of advocating one particular political position over another.
A related argument is that military organizations, as such,
have no place on a college campus. The values of the military
and the college may be in conflict, but not necessarily no more
in conflict than, for instance, business and intellectual values.
If ROTC has no business on campus, we wonder if the Placement
Bureau should be allowed to bring representatives of business
[Dow Chemical, the manufacturers of napalm, will be here December
6 and its recruiting should be hindered.!
The legal reality of military obligations, requires that the
option of participating in ROTC programs be offered to students.
This is a military consideration only, and cannot be
connected with any academic requirements of the College. Thus,
in allowing to students to avail themselves of a voluntary, extracurricular
military training program, the College does not, as it
should not, make a judgement as to the political status of the
military in the United States.
In pursuing such a path, the College would be discharging
its responsibility to provide a forum for.all political viewpoints.
Its obligation towards ROTC is to support it to the extend that
any extra-curricular activities are encouraged, and no more. To
implement this obligation requires that academic credit be withdrawn
from ROTC.
MFR, AK
