@TITLE=CAMBODIA
@BODY=Cambodians greet each other bybowing with their hands in a positionof prayer. In the large cities,some of them now shake hands,but it is not a common practice.Something that would appear highlyunusual to Westerners is theCambodian custom of holding handswith friends of the same sex. ThisIs roughly equivalent to the Americancustom of slapping a good friendon the back. Relationships betweenmembers of the opposite sex are notexpressed at all in public. Cambodianswould be shocked to Me a boyAnd girl walking arm-in-arm downthe street.Since Cambodian man normallyhave no facial hair growth, theytake great pride in growing theslightest resemblance to a beard. ItIs often in the form of several longhairs growing out of a mole, perhapsrepulsive to Americans buthighly respected by Cambodians.Cambodian women often shave theirheads after the death of their husbands,although many do it to followother ancient customs, such ashaving reached an age where theyare incapable of child-bearing.
The national dress of CambodiaIs the sampot, a bolt of material,normally raw silk, wrapped aroundthe body. Poorer people use a sampotdyed black, while the wealthierpeople we very colorful sampots.Man normally wear it at the waistand with it wear a normal type ofshirt. Women usually wear it up totheir armpits and U*en wear a emailJacket over it. In large cities, westernStyle clothes are worn by CambodianBusinessmen. However, dueto the presence of large minoritiesof Chinese. Vietnamese, and Indiansin Cambodia, a great variety inclothing styles can be observed. Forinstance, the Chinese and Vietnameseoften wear very loose silkpants, and the Indian women normallywear saris.Just as there is a variety in thetype; of clothes worn, there is alsoa tremendous variety in the typesof food eaten. The poorer Cambodianslive almost entirely on ricemixed with a few vegetables andmeat. Dairy products are almostnon-existent, as are sweets. Fruitis anunoant and varied, rangingfrom imported grapes to mangoesand Jackfruit. Very few Cambodianseat much for breakfast. The wealthierCambodians use rice as a staple,but they also eat a great amount ofvegetables and seafoods. Many oftenprepare Western meats, but theytend to cook it more along theirtastes than those of the Occident.Cambodian customs are "till fairlyuntouched by foreign influencesHowever, their forms of entertainment,the physical aspects of thecities, and the political situationare now being rapidly affected.These changes will be brought up insucceeding articles
