@TITLE=Views On The News
@BODY=by Al Purola

Schoenbrun: "I'll take corruption!"Seldom has Bowdoin College enjoyed the presence of a speaker asentertaining as the one here lastSaturday night. Mr. David Schoenbruncombined the best of objectivitywith heart-felt partisanship ina delivery fairly overflowing withwarmth and lucidity. Without asingle note, the former CBS Parisand Washington bureau chief produceda talk of exceptional intensityand depth on the state ofAmerica today and the steps shemust take in the future. Plainly,a crucial determinate of her futurelies in the election of 1964, andMr. Schoenbrun spared nothing ina slashing denunciation of BarrvGoldwater. Repeatedly calling hima radical extremist, he clearly impliedthat a Goldwater Presidencymight well be a national disaster.
Mr. Schoenbrun was born and educatedIn New York City and hassince gained invaluable experiencein a good number of the world'scapitals. It was this experience thatallowed him to play a little of thatfamous Pierre Salinger game, "DropThat Name." He Included suchnames as DeGaulle, Eisenhower,Goldwater and Tower in a list ofgood friends. Despite this, his qualificationsfor discussing the state ofAmerica in such a perspective wereevident from the beginning. Hisacquaintance with, and use of, hardstatistics left little of what he saidunsubstantiated.
It would be difficult to relate allof what he touched on, but theessence of it centered on Goldwaterand Johnson. He admitted, as manyof us have, that he wished he hadanother choice for the Presidency,but accepted the reality that one ofthe two men will have his mail sentto 1600 Pennsylvania Ave. on January21, whether we like it or not.He denounced abstentions as a votefor having no one in the WhiteHouse. Schoenbrun understands thechoice of 1964 not as a choice betweenconservative or liberal, forGoldwater is not a conservative tohim, but rather a choice betweenthe confirmation of the policies thiscountry has followed and believed infor the last 30 years, and some otherideology, that of a return to thehardened individualistic capitalistera that sprung from the SocialDarwinism of the 19th century.This latter policy la unthinkablefor Schoenbrun in today's world.
Schoenbrun says that with thetwo great powers rendered impotentby their own strength. It is imperativethat our policy toward theinevitable brush-fires of Berlin andVietnam, etc., does not Jeopardizethe equality of this impotence. Forthis reason when Goldwater says hewould give China an ultimatum tostop agitating In Vietnam or hewill "blow up a bridge or something."Schoenbrun shudders. TheJohnson position is the only positionwe can really have. Extensivesaber-rattling and the 'hard line'are not part of the times.
He attacked Goldwater hard oncivil rights and on his criticisms of"welfare socialism" When the ArizonaSenator said that he was forneither forced segregation norforced integration, he said that hewas not for enforced evil, but notfor enforced good, either, and inour hearts, we know that integrationus good. On the other issue,Goldwater's criticisms of big governmentfell flat on Schoenbrun's recollectionthat the Senator pulledhard for a one billion dollar federalgrant to Arizona to build a dambecause the water level was low.Schoenbrun himself deplores biggovernment, big corporations, biglabor or any public collectivism, butwell knows that in 1964, nothingelse can do their work. The states'rights arguments are idiotic becausethe states have no money or organizationto fulfill much of any need.Mr. Schoenbrun says that in fiftyyears they probably will.

The most heated attack on theRepublican candidate was directedat the radicals surrounding him anddirecting his campaign. He namednames of ex-Communists in keypositions with the Senator, and withremarkable rapidity traced the associationof many radicals of theright to the back halls of the Goldwatercamp. He had nothing at allgood to say of Representative Miller.His criticisms on this aspect ofthe candidate were more severe thanany on the hustings of the campaign.
Lyndon Johnson did not comeoff unscathed, either. Schoenbrunsaid he was full up with corn andTexas-style politiking — especiallyfrom Lady Bird and all the littleBirds. He rightly assessed the"Great Society" as a long enduringentity, saved by FDR and onlylately recognized by LBJ. Schoenbrunwondered why, If things wereso good as The President thought,the Lord didn't come from heavendown here, and vote Democratic.But while America goes well, thingsare not quite heavenly. Billie Soland Bobby Baker are examples of acancerous business ethic and morality.The Jenkins Case? A personalabberation, but a scandal nevertheless.He was also critical of Johnson'snegligence of the ever-so-obvioussecurity crises of the pastyear. He would fire J. Edgar Hoovertomorrow, and detests his reveredposition.
Schoenbrun offered as his solutionto this election dilemma this:If you square this type of Johnsoncorruption with the idiotic, 19thcentury radicalism of Goldwater,your best solution will be a votefor corruption. Schoenbrun neversuggested that Johnson himselfwere corrupt, only that corruptionhaunts any Administration.
In clear and poignant terms,Schoenbrun called for the re-electionof Lyndon Johnson. He, likethe New York Times, considers ita necessity.