@TITLE=The Spectator
@BODY=We thought that the first sentence of this column should be "A new year has begun at Bowdoin College...", but only a little reflection told us that this was not appropriate. There are indeed new faces to be seen around the campus, but the same old problems are still with us: a bad freshman class at the Brook, a bookstore without books, and Americans dying in Vietnam. The former two problems we can live with, but the last might prove to be tragic. Every day, so it seems, we have spread the war further; and as yet we have accomplished nothing except the deaths of close to five-thousand Americans and untold numbers of Vietnamese. If we remain longer, many thousands more will be killed, and still we will not be able to win. Even atomic weapons will not help us. The Vietnamese have only to bury their guns, return to their farms, and wait until we start to leave; then the war will begin again. It is their land and their country; all that we can do is lose. A week ago last Sunday much of the college community heard Ambassador Reischauer proclaim that we never should have let ourselves get involved in Vietnam in the first place, but rather should have encouraged nationalism as our defense against a world-wide communist hierarchy. He even implied that is is still not too late to do so. The Vietnamese and Chinese have always been bitter enemies and it is only our militancy that is forcing them to become allies. Somehow, however, Ambassador Reischauer came to the conclusion that things would get even worse if we left Vietnam. Unfortunately, he did not specify how they could possibly get worse than they are now, except through further American buildup, which, because of recent calls for peace, seems immanent. Just what would happen if the United States were to leave Vietnam immediately? Let's look at all of the plus and minus points. Most important, I think, is a consideration of the human deaths that might be expected. It has been claimed that a Viet Long takeover would mean the deaths of many South Vietnamese-landowners, politicians, military men, etc. I do not doubt that this might be so; but, what about the thousands of people that are dying every week as a result of the war. Are these to be forgotten? Our government has said at various times that the war might drag on for another five or ten years. If we do escalate, as we undoubtedly will during the second week of November, if not before, the death rate will go even higher that it now is. Pulling out altogether will definitely over the long run save thousands of lives. International politics is another consideration we must make; and here almost all evidence indicates that we should pull out. Most of the countries in the world disagree with our stand on Vietnam, including most of our allies. Even England could not support our bombing of the areas around Haiphong and Hanoi. France has been constantly against us, as has most of Scandinavia. In Asia the feelings are pretty split: India, Pakistan, and most Japanese are against our involvement, not to mention Cambodia and large parts of Laos. Our leaving would hurt only a few countries, none of which we are in danger of losing as strong allies anyway; and would substantially reduce tensions with the communist countries, all of whom are strongly opposed to our involvement in Vietnam. According to knowledgeable people, like Ambassador Reischauer, the "domino theory" seems to have no basis in fact. Cambodia, having a strong neutralist government, is in no danger of falling from subversion; Thailand is now being bothered by sporadic fighting in its northeast corner, but, according to Ambassador Reischauer, and most other authorities on Thailand, the Thai's historical situation precludes the possibility of a widespread Communist insurgence. Large-scale American economic help to this part of Thailand might do even more to diminish this possibility. At any rate what happens in Vietnam will have very little effect on what might take place in Thailand. The same thing can be said about Laos. A civil war was going on in Laos long before direct American military involvement in Vietnam. Whether we stay or leave will make no difference to the Laotians fighting there. We must not forget that these countries are very near to China, and thus that China will have a large effect on them. But, historically, all of these countries have disliked China, and thus will undoubtedly remain neutral as far as international politics is concerned. No, our leaving Vietnam will not increase the problems in that part of the world, but undoubtedly would lessen them considerably. It is to the great advantage of the United States as well as to the rest of the world, especially Southeast Asia, that we get out immediately. By remaining we can only lose; killing, being killed, and accomplishing nothing. 