@TITLE=Views On The News
@BODY=The crisis in the Dominican Republic
has caused considerable commenton the general state of theUnited States foreign policy. That crisis followedclosely behind some of themost serious encounters in Vietnam.Despite Johnson's guarantees thatthat war was not escalating it wasplain to all Americans that thingswere getting very serious. Still ourcommitment there, while nebulousat best, was understood to be completeand final.
The Southeast Asia situation hasgotten progressively worse and atpresent over 40,000 American troopsare in that peninsula. Every daywe are exposed to pictures ofwrecked bridges and rail lines andto reports of the previous day'ssuccessful air raid. Yet the wargets no closer to a completion. Hundredsof Americans have lost theirlives and the financial aid is veryconsiderable. Complicating the militarysituation is the fact thatCambodia has broken off diplomaticrelations with the United States.Many people had thought Sihanoukrepresented the only possible hopefor a negotiated settlement on Vietnam.Cambodia had proposed severalconferences to settle the issuebut when the United States accepted, Sihanouk,apparently trying to pacifythe Chinese Communists, wouldallow the South Vietnamese to attendbecause they did not speak forthe country. This is the generaltype of problem that the SoutheastAsia situation presents.
It seems now that the only coursethe United States can follow is to encouragesome peace settlement in the Vietnamcivil war. Johnson has shownsincere interest in this, but are thebombing raids helping our position?Are the raids valuable? They arebasically prolonging a war that wecannot win and that must inevitablyend in a peace settlement.Johnson must do, more than indicatewillingness to talk to anybodyanywhere, he must try to organizea conference. Red China must obviouslybe present and as a footnote,it is time we woke up to thereality of recognition of China.South Vietnam has been ineffectivein the war because they haveno stable government. A negotiatedpeace should make provisions forthe formation of a sound governmentin Saigon. The United Statesis in no position to dictate the typeof government to be formed andthis is what Johnson is afraid of.

But the United States, while in onesense the protector of the freeworld, should hot assume that it isthe guardian of all the world's noncommunistpeoples. We have nowherenear the assets to undertakesuch a chore. Our essential taskmust be to promote peace and coexistence,and basically I feel thatthis is Russia's position, too. Butthe aggravations in South Asia havebegun to involve Moscow as well asPeking. It is the 'policeman brinkmanship'that has characteristicallymarked Johnson's foreign policy andeffectively eliminated the detentethat more or less existed before. Theuprisings involving the UnitedStates have made the peace muchmore perilous than it ought to be.
The Dominican Republic conflictis unfortunately another example of'policmanship' gone asunder. Theadministration in trying to do whatit should, i.e. protect or evacuate allthe Americans there has transgressedall of the foreign policy goals ofthis country for Latin America inthe last 50 years. While there isreason to fear another Castro-typeregime in the hemisphere, there wasapparently no evidence that thatpossibility existed in the DominicanRepublic. Instead of doing the obvious,which would have been to invokethe O.A.S., Johnson decided onunilateral intervention and has sentover 20,000 troops to the island.This is very similar to somethingT. R. might have done — but ishopelessly out of place today.
The peace settlement is shaky atbest and will be a long time beforeelections are held, but the United Statesmust withdraw its unilateral forcesand contribute to the O.A.S. effort.While domestic support for Johnson'spolicies there has been considerable,I am of the opinion thatworld opinion can only go againstus.
Some of the underdeveloped andbackward nations in Central andSouth America are bound to soon beinvolved in political upheavals asthe people have become more awareof their plight. This is particularlytrue in Haiti and Venezuela. TheUnited States policy to such de e cpmentsobviously cannot be whatwas in the Dominican Republic.While President Johnson hasperceived particular adept at unifyingforces at home, especially laborand business and has been presidentthrough a period of unparalleledeconomic strength, I submitthat his foreign policy decisionshave suffered. While there is noquestion that Johnson wants an extendedpeace, he has felt compelledto overstep his bounds in terms ofUnited States action abroad. The foreignpolicy must be altered so that theprecarious peace can be made secure.The magnitude of this problemis immeasurable, but somethingmight be gained if the United States showedmore restraint in its military actionsabroad.