@TITLE=Reischauer Analyzes Asian Complexities
@BODY=A sense of the magnitude of the diversity of the problems of Asia and of the length of time that will be necessary to solve them was the crux of the address delivered by Dr. Edwin O. Reischauer in the Pickard Theater last Sunday night. Dr. Reischauer is a former professor of Far Eastern History and Languages at Harvard and from 1961-1966 served as ambassador to Japan. He has recently retired from his government post and will return to Harvard this year. Although Dr. Reischauer is an authority on Japan, his address touched upon all of Asia, including the present problems of China and Vietnam. The emphasis of the lecture was on the complexity of the entire Eastern situation. Dr. Reischauer made it clear that Asia is an immense entity, both in size and population, and yet it is also a maze of many differing and independent nations with differing problems. Japan, for example, is in many ways related to the West. It was the first Asian nation to industrialize and come into world trade and political activity, and by so doing acted as a catalyst for the development of the other Eastern nations. The difference in Japan, however, lies in just this fact that it was first, and so has managed to keep far ahead of the other nations. Japan now has a standard of living comparable to to most European countries and a literacy rate of 99%, ahead of that of the United States In contrast, most other nations in the Far East have very low living standards and low literacy. The problem of time was reiterated by Dr. Reischauer at this point in that by the time other Asian nations began to develop their resources, Japan was already several decades ahead, a head start that has not yet been able to be breached. The slow beginning for the other nations, such as China and Southeast Asia can be explained by the fact that they were always rather isolated, from themselves as well as from the rest of the world. Even now this isolation is in effect, especially with China. This vast difference in each nation because of isolation and background is the reason that we need to regard each nation as a separate problem. One Asian policy cannot suffice for Malaysia, Indonesia, India, China, and Vietnam, according to Dr. Reischauer. Most of Asia has two major handicaps, Dr. Reischauer explained: poor climate and a bad population-to-resources ratio. When Europe began to develop it had a small population, but Asia, with one half of the world's population, is hampered by an abundance of people. Today, however, Asia does have one large advantage, that of outside knowledge and aid. Europe had to develop by its own devices, but Asia can look to assistance from other areas of the world. What is needed, Reischauer ventured, is a set of long-range goals for Asia. "It is not important what goes on today," he said, "but what goes on in 30 or 40 years. Our policies make sense only when they make sense over a period of years." The second intrinsic change in American attitudes has to be a recognition of nationalism as the dominant force in Asia. Dr. Reischauer claimed that nationalism is the best force for strengthening Asian nations as well as for defeating unwanted foreign influences. In the past Dr. Reischauer said, we have been smothering this nationalism with a "mother-hen complex." This attitude on America's part of over-protectiveness is due mainly to America's awesome power, power which is immense, yet limited. We have and can demonstrate great economic and military power in Asia, but this type of strength is useless against the tremendous number of people in the area, and also against internal instability and subversion, two constant problems in all Asian nations. Dr. Reischauer stated that most Asian nations do not have the resources for either a democratic or totalitarian government, and this is why many Asian nations, China, Vietnam, Korea and Indonesia, for example, have long been ruled by military regimes. What Dr. Reischauer finally suggested as an alternative to the present "non-policy" is a reversal of the present SEATO approach. "The entire psychology is wrong: the idea of a military force holding a long tight line in Asia is not good," Reischauer opined. What should be done is to give non-aligned support to the Asian nations and let them work out their problems under the aegis of nationalism. Closing his address with remarks about China, Dr. Reischauer seemed optimistic about the threat supposedly presented by the Asian giant. 'We do not have to be as afraid of China as we are," he stated. "China is a large, slowly developing nation that is growing much more slowly than her neighbors." Dr. Reischauer predicted a continuing string of failures in China's foreign policy, stemming primarily from their oppressive feelings of racial superiority. China has already alienated a great many Asian and African nations with this superiority feeling, and it will continue to do so in the future. The best long run hope, according to Dr. Reischauer, is peaceful co-existence with China. This, he feels, can best be achieved by education of China to the rest of the world. In the end this would include both open trade with China and participation by China in international governing bodies. 
