@TITLE=Over 150,000 Mobilize For Diverse War Protest
@BODY=America's military activities in North and South Vietnamreceived their most spectacular criticism last weekend in NewYork City. More than 150,000 people converged in Central Parkand points east towards the United Nations on Saturday to demonstratetheir dissent. At 11 a.m. the crowd began its- slow trekto the UN Plaza for what was the largest peace rally in the historyof the United States.Sponsored by the Spring Mobilization Committee to End theWar in Vietnam, the rally featured Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr.,Stokely Carmichael, Dr. Benjamin Spock, and a group of SiouxIndians as speakers. In San Francisco 55,000 marchers turnedout to protest against the war.Bowdoin and many, many other New England schools sentdelegations to the march. The Women Strike for Peace, TheStudents For A Democratic Society, The Progressive LaborParty, and several groups of veterans for peace in Vietnam werethere as well. Flags (both American and those of the Vietcong),buttons, banners, and signs were in abundance.In the crowd were students (both college and high school),mothers with children, women well over 40, veterans and laborers.One of the most colorful contingents was composed of universityprofessors in full formal academic regalia.
Just before the march began 70 demonstrators assembled on a knoll in the southeast corner of Sheep Meadow. To the beat of drums and in an atmosphere of incense several draft cards were promptly burned. Demonstrators claimed that 200 cards were destroyed. 
The group left Central Park withDr. King and the other leaders inthe vanguard and moved alongCentral Park South and 59thStreet. Later demonstrators surgeddown Madison Avenue chanting"We Want Peace!" Turning eastoh 45th Street and then downSecond Avenue, thousands ofmarchers emptied into the UNPlaza to hear Dr. King and others.By 2:30 the bulk of the crowdhad barely moved from CentralPark. Realizing the speeches wereto begin soon at the Plaza, a groupfrom Harlem broke away from themarch and went streaking down6th Avenue (an unauthorizedstreet) yelling "Hell no, blackswon't go" and waving Vietcongflags. Police stopped the onslaughtbefore it reached the UN with ablockade. Generally, however,there was a minimum of violenceand heckling from people opposedto the march.At the Plaza Dr. King told thehuge gathering that "we mustwork for the day when nationwill not rise against nation andneither will they study war nomore... Let us save our nationalhonor—stop the bombing. Let ussave American lives and Vietnameselives—stop the bombing. Letus take a single instantaneousstep to the peace table—stop thebombing. Let our voices ring outacross the land to say the Americanpeople are not vaingloriousconquerors—stop the bombing."
