@TITLE=Collegiate Press Reports From Vietnam Siagon's Atmosphere
@BODY=SAIGON (CPS) — Saigon is probably the world's most relaxed center of intrigue, violence and war. It doesn't seem like a city under siege.
Sloe-eyed will-o'-wisp girls dressed in soft slit addax's and spiked heels walk narrow boulevards over-hung with green elms or tropical palms.
At Cercle Sportive Vietnamese and European girls girls lounge in bikinis beside the pool, while wealthy white-clad warriors shoot tennis balls at each other on beautifully groomed courts. 
In low-slung French colonial office buildings, civil servants who have kept papers moving for nine governments in three years go on stamping and filing, conversing in French on difficult bureaucratic questions, and drinking tea. 
Young women and middle-aged men wear silk or cotton pajamas much of the day. It does save time, be- cause from 12 to 3 in the afternoon the city shuts down and people sleep.
Newcomers are often baffled by causal air that hangs over much of Saigon. "I thought there was a war going on here," one five-day veteran said recently. 
Though it doesn't move very fast, Saigon is one of the world's busiest and most crowded urban areas. There are two and a half million people living here now, one-sixth of the population of South Vietnam. The city was built for about half that number: it has doubled in the last five years. 
Saigon wakes early. Curfew ends at 4 a.m. and the ten great markets of the capital open for business. A stream of peasants bring chickens, pigs, rice, vegetables and fruit into town. By noon all the food has been brought the central market is deserted, and rats the size of kittens scuttle along the cement gutters gnawing on vegetable husks and other refuse. 
The stalls of the "common man's PX" have been set up downtown. Army ponchos are spread on sidewalks and vendors hawk everything from French toothpaste to American whiskey and C-rations. Mothers nurse their babies as they sit cross-legged in the sun, teen-agers hold out sunglasses or cigarette lighters, tiny little girls grab your hand and stuff a bag of peanuts into it, and everybody asks. "You buy?" Cheap, Cheap."
In the harbor, port congestion ties up tons of imports for months, while a few hundred yards away prices soar as speculators hoard the goods that do get through, legally or not. 
American GI's in olive drab fatigues hang from telephone poles, trying to bolster the city's sagging and overworked telephone systems. Saigon is a jaded city. There are no innocents here, not even little kids. Everything happens in the streets,
and a ten-year-old Vietnamese girl is likely to know more about the way adults behave in the dark or under stress than a 20-year-old American college boy.
Layers of dust give busy streets the same dull yellow look as the stucco walls around French villas and office buildings. 
For lack of private toilet facilities, many urinate or defecate in alleys and streets. A year ago piles of garbage lay rotting on Saigon's main boulevards, and even now in some places the trucks can't cart it away fast enough. 
On Tu Do (Freedom) Street, once a fashionable office and shopping district scores of bars now to American GI's. The dull, inevitable pump of Nancy Sinatra or the Beatles lasts from three in the afternoon to eleven at night, when military police move through to hustle lingerers home before curfew.
Inside, a young air cavalryman down from An Khe tells a sad-looking girl the same war story he told another girl last night, and wishes he were it to the girl back home. For her part, the bar girl tells him in broken English about her divided family maybe the same story she told last night, maybe not and wonders if he will take her home. She made more money last week than her father did last year. Prices are higher now though.
Outside, teen-age boys peddle pornography and young men with motor scooters and old men with pedicabs offer a ride home, and a "nice young girl-- cheap."
Students dodging the draft buy forged credentials, and money changers-who often turn out to be sleight of hand artists or secret police agents-promise double the official rate for greenbacks. 
Despite the weariness, the closeness and the heat Saigon's culture has a spontaneity that twenty years of war has not stamped out. 
Night lift is tinny, but those frequent the city's clubs give it a pulsing rhythm of its own. Any solider lives close to the surface, and the Vietnamese infantryman tends to be more fatalistic than most. A terrorist grenade or a drunken officer's pistol shot could end it any time. Private dance parties require a permit, but many young hosts and hostesses take their chances and often wind up with the police as
uninvited guests.
Well-stocked French bookstores bear testimony to a, large class of people who continue to enjoy European literature for its own sake. At this moment, controversy rages over whether to premit the French to maintain their prestigious lycees, and whether or not to substitute Vietnamese-or English-for French as the language of instruction in the universities.
The newspapers are still subject to government censorship, but political discussions restaurants and cafes are often heated and free. Unlike the last days under Diem, students now do not hesitate to criticize the regime, and charges of corruption and/or incompetence are regularly if quietly flung at some of the Directory's leading generals.
But political discussions, even those involving the new Constituents Assembly, inevitably smack of resignation. South Vietnam is at war against itself, Saigon is under siege, and even the most hopeful know that as long as this goes on, and may be longer, the generals will wield effective power. 

