@TITLE=Collegiate Press Reports From Vietnam: Pathetic Picture Of Saigon Life
@BODY=SAIGON (CPS)—The sky was overcast. It wasalmost noon, time for a mid-day shower. I wasstanding on the curb waiting for a pediecab not farfrom the intersection of two of Saigon's mainstreets, Le Van Duyet and Hong Thap Tu. theCercle Sportif was just around the corner.There didn't seem to be many empty pedicabs.A little Vietnamese boy came along the dirt paththat served for a sidewalk, but I was watchingthe street and didn't notice him at first. When Iturned, he was standing there eyeing me fromabout ten feet away.I guessed he was six or seven. Even standingon tiptoe he wouldn't have reached quite to mybelt line. He was probably wearing rubber thongs,I don't remember. I did notice he had on a matchingpair of dark blue shorts and shirt, cleaned andfreshly ironed, with some sort of colored emblemembroidered on the shirt pocket. He looked likehe'd just had a haircut. His eyes were dark andwide, like a six-or-seven-year-old boy's.While I was' noticing these things, and keepinghalf an eye on the traffic in hopes of finding mypediecab, he was looking at me with a sort of quizzicalexpression on his face, his eyes downcast.I turned back to the street for a few seconds,then shifted so that I was facing him again. Inthat brief moment, his eyes narrowed slightly andhis little hand shot out in a gesture that meansthe same thing all over the world: give me somemoney. He didn't say a word, and the unsure expressionon his face stayed exactly the same.Nobody in Saigon would get upset over somethinglike this. It happens to any American countlesstimes every day. The population of Saigon
Has doubled in the last few years, to almost and a half million. Most of these people are refugees,who left what they owned in the country-They form a whole new social class which hasbeen created by the war and is now trying to makea living off it.Many of the young girls become prostitutes, orhostesses in the hundreds of bars that have sprungup to cater to American GI's. Many of the menbecome pimps or money changers or black marketeers.Many of the little boys shine shoes, andif you tell them no they try to shine them anyway,or trip you as you go past, since they know youcould easily afford to let them earn a few piastresif you wanted to. The children who are too smallto earn any money often just keep their hands out,begging, as long as an American is in sight.They've learned a few English words, like "Numberone!" or "Number ten!", "Hello, O.K.!" or"-----!" People in Saigon are used to it.But this is different. This little boy was obviouslynot of the refugee class. His parents, if theywere typical middle-class Vietnamese, had probablytaught him that only pariahs beg, especiallyfrom Americans. I may have misinterpreted himof course, but I think that what he was doing inthose brief moments before he put his hand out.was measuring both of us. He was asking himselfif I was the kind of person who would give himsome money, and he was wondering if he was thekind of boy who would ask for it.Only for an instant I became very bitter, thenjust sad. When I shook my head with a sort ofplaintive smile, he stuck his hand in his pocket,, lowered his eyes and began to walk on, againwithout a word. He turned briefly after severalsteps, saw that I was watching him, and kept going1 turned back toward the street, and when Ilooked again he had disappeared around a corneror into the crowd.