@TITLE=Congressional Committee Charges Red Manipulation
@BODY=The House Committee on Un-American Activities has chargedthat Communists are the principal organizing force behind extensivedemonstrations to take place during "Vietnam Week,"April 8-15. A Committee report, "Communist Origin and Manipulationof Vietnam Week," says the aims of these demonstrations are to reverse the United States policy of resisting Communism in Vietnam, 
undermine the United States, destroyany possibility of establishinga stable democratic governmentin Vietnam and promote aCommunist takeover there.The Committee names two groupsas the planners and organizers ofthe demonstrations — the StudentMobilization Committee and theSpring Mobilization Committee. Itsays "Communists are playingdominant roles" in both organizations.
The student group, the Committeestates, grew out of a conferencein Chicago last December, calledby Bettina Aptheker of the CommunistParty's National Committeeto organize a, nationwide studentstrike against the war. in Vietnam.The conference decided tolimit the strike proposal to a fewkey campuses, but to stage extensiveon-and-off campus studentdemonstrations throughout theweek of April 8-15.The aim of the Spring MobilizationCommittee is to stage onApril 15, as a culmination to VietnamWeek, the largest demonstrationever to take p!ace in theU. S. against the war in Vietnam.The two committees have joined forces to issue the success of their joint projects. 
Representative Edwin E Willis,Chairman of the Committee, saidevidence indicates that the organizersof Vietnam Week may succeedin their basic objective ofstaging the largest and most extensivedemonstrations against thewar in Vietnam."We must keep in mind, however,.that they originally hoped toturn out 500,000 people for theirmarch in New York and the samenumber for their San Franciscomarch and demonstration -- atotal of 1,000,000 people. I amconvinced they will not get anythinglike this number. It will bea Communist failure in this respect,though they will succeed inproviding a lot of grist for theworldwide Communist propagandamil'."Naturally, this is disturbing. Itis encouraging, however, to knowthat the great majority of studentsin this country are refusingto have anything to do with Vietnam Week and counterdemonstrationsare being organized on somecampuses."The Committee report finds thatglobal publicity will be given tothe Vietnam Week demonstrationsby Communist propagandists in allparts of the world and will havethe following effects:(a) It will give aid and comfortto the Communists everywhere,particularly in Vietnam;(b) Among non-Communists, itwin tend to create the false impressionthat a truly large segmentof the U. S. population is vehementlyopposed to this country'spolicy in Vietnam;(c) U. S. leaders will be facedwith greater difficulties in convincingour allies of the correctnessof this country's policy inVietnam. (Other Committee conclusionsare found on pages 53, 54of the report.)