@TITLE=War Teach-in Attacks Policy 
@BODY="We have fostered a type of imperialism."With this analysis, by;Professor Ernst Helmreich, anoverflow crowd heard a reexamination of the United States policy inVietnam at a teachin sponsored bySDS Wednesday night. Alongwith Professor Helmreich, professorsWilliam Whiteside, Daniel Levineand John Rensenbrink lashedout against present policy.Professor Helmreich began bypresenting the history of theFrench involvement in Indochina.He established the basis fromwhich much of the following threetalks could be understood, andfurther asserted that the United
States merely stepped into therole of the colonial power in Vietnam. Professor Helmriech saidthat whereas the United States did"not fall into the pattern of'European colonialism of the early twentiethcentury, "We have fostereda type of imperialism."United States PuppetsPicking up the discussion fromthe beginning of the American involvementin Vietnam, ProfessorWhiteside expressed a moral indignation,even outrage againstthe war.Professor Whiteside continued,"We were going to give the Vietnamesepeople peace, but only ifthey would do it our way. TheC.I.A. had a great deal to do withthe setting up of Diem as the'saviour' of South Vietnam. Thegreatest criticism of the UnitedStates is that we refused to holdelections, and that we have triedto force our own system on theVietnamese. I have no blue-printfor action now, but the war InVietnam is sheer insanity!"Professor Levine took over atthis point and presented a numberof the traditional argumentsSupporting United States involvement inVietnam. He then argued they areare invalid in light, of ourknowledge about the war.Atrocity Question Responding to the argument thatthe Vietcong commit terrible actsof terror, Professor Levine remarked,"I talk more aboutAmerican killing because I am anAmerican. I am more responsiblewhen my country, my President,and my tax dollars kill. Ifeel more guilt about thesedeaths."The next argument examinedwas that the United States is protecting thegovernment of South Vietnam.This is true, according to Levine,because if the United States were to pullout, "the present governmentwould not last a week. It is acase of that government beinga puppet of ours." He continued,"We are there to defend the freedomof these people so long as itis freedom for anything not Communist oriented. 
There is no freedom in South Vietnam." 
Domino Theory
The "domino theory" was theNext statement to come under fireBy Levine. He said, "We canwin. a victory in Vietnam andNortheast Thailand will be just asvulnerable to aggression as it isnow. The war in Vietnam is anindependent variable." The final question handled wasthe Chinese threat to the securityof Southeast Asia. Levine calledthis a legitimate question, butasked if our present policy is theright way to handle this threat,imagined or real. His answerwas a resounding no."We say that we are not acolonial power, and I believe thata ring of American coloniesaround China would be inaffective.The best counterweight to ChineseNationalistic Communism is othernationalism; nationalism in aunited Vietnam, Thailand, Burma.The war in Vietnam is counterproductiveto our goals partly becausewe are in the role of a colonialpower. We are supportinga bunch that are not worth thesupport. Every time we escalatethe war, everything the Communistssay about us is true. We aresolidifying the entire Communistworld against us. We are forcingevery Vietcong to fight to the bitterend. And, as a side effect,domestic policies such as the Waron Poverty have been thrownout."Levine's PlanWhat then should be done? ProfessorLevine offered a plan of action."The first thing we mustdo is to end the bombing, whicheven McNamara says is not working.Then we should contact theVietcong, and the National LiberationFront, and try to split themaway from Hanoi. After this weshould try to de-escalate the waras much as possible, and expressa willingness to seek a neutralizationof South Vietnam. Ourpresence should be gradually decreased,to be replaced by an internationalforce consisting mainlyof Asians. The generals have
been consistently wrong, it is timeto try another approach."At this point, Professor Resenbrinktook up the discussion. Hisopening statement was, "The mostastounding fact about the war inVietnam is that, for Heaven'ssake, how do the Vietcong stayalive? We have 400,000 menthere, or 40 Vietnamese for everyG.I., and we spent over $20 billionlast year to fight the Vietcong."Colonial WarAgreeing with Professor Levine,Resenbrink said that "we are engagedin a colonial war, and thishas many overtones such as afather-recalcitrant son relation. Weregard ourselves as having a legitimatepurpose in Vietnam, butthis legitimacy is slowly disappearing."He continued, "There is muchto be said about NFL and itscause, but we must look at whatwe are supporting. It is a regimethat has been historicallyproven to be opposed to progressinto the modern world. The Vietconghas established itself withthe elements of the country mostin favor of modernization, and ofkicking the foreigners out. It isan astounding fact to me that wedon't get out and form some formof an allegiance with the Vietcong,the progressive force of Vietnam."Resenbrink went on to say. "Wethink that we are fighting Communism,but we are not. We arefighting against the modernizationof society. We think that we, arefighting aggression but we arenot. How in God's name can wecall them aggressors in light of therefusal of the West to live up to.the Geneva Conference in 1954?What we have done is to create anew species of the 'White Man'sBurden.' If we don't see this weare kidding ourselves. And in sodoing this," we are ignoring the majorproblem facing the world, theproblem of an exploding population."Getting Out EasyAccording to Professor Resenbrink,getting out of Vietnam iseasy. "A just parallel is to theAlgerian War. It was the mostghastly colonial war in history,until now. DeGaulle has everyright to call our policy despicablebecause he got France out of thatwar. We had better be on theright side of the forces of history,or this country is finished. It isour moment of truth. What do wedo? First of all we must have thewill to act. We would be muchbetter off even with a NationalCommunist government in Vietnam.But the real question doesnot lie in Vietnam, it lies here inthe United States. We must faceup to the progress of history, wemust develop the will to act."There are three types of peoplewho are unable to make this decision.There are the 'hand-wringers'.whose silent acquiescence tothe war catches them up in a fatalitythat makes it impossible forthem to do anything. The secondclass of people are those who aredominated by an anti-Communisticpsychosis. To them, Communistsare not human. And the third typeare what I call the dominant minoritywho control our government.They are men of the institutionwho have lost all direction. Theyare men who are dead or dying.They are not living for life, butfor an institution."