@TITLE=New Leftist Robert Cook: 'Vietnam Pawn in Cold War'
@BODY=Expressing the spirit of the NewLeft, Robert Cook inspected the'American involvement in Vietnamin his speech in Wentworth Halllast night. Reviewing the historyof Vietnam, theorizing on the essenceof revolution, and explaininghis views of American foreignpolicy, Cook discussed the reasonsbehind his initial reaction towardsthe war—"a monstrous wrong . .the logical outcome of a systematicforeign policy."In a calm and lucid manner(some observers were disappointedthat he didn't scream from a soapbox—a ludicrous criticism), "theYale Professor presented the "feeling"of the New Left, exuding asensible and sensitive judgment onUnited States society; not only inits relation to the actions in Vietnam,but also in its attitude to-- wards civil rights.Two themes were drawn throughCook's talk. One, a history of Vietnam,traced the French involvementin the twentieth century tothe mid-fifties and the relationsof the United States to the present. Relatedto this history is United Statesforeign policy and what Cook refersto as Vietnam's position as a"pawn in the cold war" and '"abastion against the communistconspiracy that has to be destroyed.' ... We are not fightingin Vietnam to save the people, tosave democracy. We are perfectlywell prepared to sacrifice the peopleto the ends of our foreignpolicy."Further emphasizing this view,Cook feels the "accidents" involvingcitizens that one reads aboutin the newspapers are "not by accident,but by design; that's ourentire design of the war." The secondtheme concerns a philosophyof revolutions—industrial, "raising
the level of gross national productto raise the standard of living ofmost of the people"; and democratic,divided into two subdivisions,political, "the assertion bythe people of a country that thegovernment belongs to them", andsocial, concerning the redistributionof privileges and land, and ashift of classes. ,According to Cook, since theAmerican Revolution the UnitedStates has never completed theserevolutions. "In other countries,for reasons of progress, this (completion)has been essential. Thishas always been a violent revolution.We have proclaimed nonviolence,as shown in the civilrights movement." Continuing thistheory, Cook finds a failure in ourrevolution "to continue beyond itsown beginning and develop fullyits own internal logic." He concludes:"The final realization ofthe war in Vietnam is in fact thelogic of our own society, of ourfailure to face the problems ofpolitical and economic and socialequality in the United States—thefailure to carry through our revolution.""The final result is that therehas developed in the United States today arevolutionary class, who feel separatedfrom, outside of the existingsocial order, who no longeraccept the authority of the governmentand the people who runit. . . . This interpretation muststem from an understanding of adistinction that has been blurredin our minds between the societyand the state, because the thingsthat we admire and the thingsthat we grew up learning to fightfor are part of this society. Theyare not necessarily represented bythe current state, nor the institutionswhich that state controls,nor the people who man thoseinstitutions. So that it's perfectlypossible for that revolutionaryclass to exist—American, yet totallyopposed and outside of the centralinstitutions of that society today,primarily the federal governmentand the huge corporate andfinancial interests."In concluding, Cook expressed afear of an inevitable war withChina: "The logic of escalationleads to a challenge with Chinaand very possibly to an all-outnuclear war. The thing that worriesme really is that the classwon't grow fast enough nor willit attain power rapidly enough toprevent this final disaster, that isthe culmination of our policy inVietnam."In a question-and-answer period,Cook emphatically stated hissolution to the war: ". . . to getout as fast as humanely possibleand also offer to pay the Vietnamesefor reconstruction of theircountry the amount of moneywhich we would have spent destroyingit."



