@TITLE=Demonstration Season In Saigon Collegiate Press Reports From Vietnam
@BODY=The Collegiate Press ServiceSAIGON, South Vietnam (CPS) — The greatissues of the war came to a head here last weekas the demonstration season opened—one monthearly. Catholics, high school students and the Anti-Corruption Youth League took to the streets in"popular" demonstrations staged by the government.The first marches were in protest against a"false peace." Then a girls' high school led a studentstrike against coalition governments-in-exile.By the middle of the week a boys' high school wasboycotting classes in protest against the EducationMinister's attempts to manipulate studentsfor political purposes.Saigon laughed, and sighed. Old Asia handstalked of other things. One serious Vietnamesepatriot wept that once again his country had become"the laughingstock of the world." But manyof his compatriots chuckled in their beer and settleddown to enjoy the show while they could,before it got dangerous.
The chain of events began with a press conferenceon February 22, whereunder secretary ofInformation Mai Van Dai announced the formationin France of a neutralist-communist coalition government-in-exile. The coalition government seemedto exist, however, only in the imagination of theSaigon government. It was said to be headed byDr. Buu Hoi, a respected pharmacist and a memberof the royal family of Bao Dai. NLF chairmanNguyen Huu Tho was named as Deputy Premierand Secretary of State. Another prominent postwent to Tran Van Huu, a wealthy South Vietnamesefrancophile. And the commander-in-chief ofthe armed forces was none other than the deposedanti-Communist strongman Gen. Nguyen Khanh.The SAIGON POST, published by Bui Diem,close advisor to Premier Ky and now Ambassadorto Washington, headlined: "PLOT FOR NEWVIETNAM PARTITION BARED." It quoted ahigh official in the Ministry of Information as saying,"This is a true indication that the Communistsnow are unable to lure any true nationalists intotheir coalition farce, and had to seek alliance witha group of have-been politicians who do not representany political force or tendency in Vietnam."Perhaps coincidentally, at the same press conferenceGen. Nguyen Ngoc Loan, director of NationalPolice, showed newsmen a little red bookwhich purported to prove that Viet Cong terroristshad murdered a prominent nationalist editor inSaigon early in 1966. The object lesson was plain:true nationalists cannot afford to compromise withCommunists." The report of the new coalition government inParis was a matter of great curiosity to manynewsmen, but for three days nothing further washeard from any government ministry, and no Saigonpapers mentioned it again.Then, the marching started in Saigon.Feb. 25—2,500 members of the Greater CatholicUnity Bloc held a torchlight parade through downtownSaigon, ended by burning DeGaulle, Sihanouk,Ho Chi Minh and U Thant in effigy beforethe Constituent Assembly. The marchers' lay leaderssaid their intent was to protest "the fallaciouspeace that a coalition of colonialists, communists,and feudal elements are presently trying to imposeon the people of this land."Feb. 27—500 members of the Progressive Youthof Vietnam marched on the Consulate-General of-»France and broke through the gate, smashingautomobiles, burning motor scooters, and breakingwindows in the main building. Their signs read"Down with DeGaulle" and "We protest the FalsePeace campaign."Feb. 28—200 three-wheel Lambrettas snarledtraffic once again in front of the French Consulate.The drivers of the empty vehicles, most of "themmembers of the Vietnamese Confederation of Labor, chanted "Down with DeGaulle." The resolutionsthey threw over the compound fence askedthe Ky government to "listen to the urgent voiceof the poor," nationalize and distribute all Frenchproperty in Vietnam, and seize the property ofBuu Hoi and Nguyen Khanh in particular.March 3—Taxis and buses massed in yet anotherdemonstration against the French Consulate, organizedby the Anti-Corruption Youth League. Themiddle-aged youths demanded that South Vietnambreak all relations with France./. March 4—6,000 public high school students gatheredat the Hoa Lu Stadium to protest President.DeGaulle's "unavowed intentions," and to warnagainst a false peace and a coalition government in-exile. From Hoa Lu they marched on the "French" Consulate, burned effigies of DeGaulle andHo Chi Minh. Their petitions called for a firmstand in the war.March 6—500 of the 1,500 girls at TruongVuong High School boycotted Monday morningclasses in protest against "the schemes of thecommunist colonialists and to denounce the governmentin exile and false peacemakers." ByTuesday morning classes at the school had beenclosed and only a few girls were sitting on thesteps outside the main gate.Monday night the Progressive Youth and theAnti-Corruption Youth League led another torchlightparade. Several hundred youths marched onthe Constituent Assembly building in Lam SonSquare. This time the protest was against "foreigndefeatist statesmen," namely William Fulbrightand Robert Kennedy. The message was gettingmore pointed.March 7—On Tuesday the first crack in theprotest campaign appeared. Chu Van An Boys'High School struck in sympathy with the girls ofTruong Vuong. But the boys at Petrus Ky HighSchool also went en strike—against the Ministryof Education for trying to manipulate high schoolstudents for political purposes.Next morning the government-operated VietnamPress reported that both schools had struckagainst the "False Peace" campaign. A contraryreport in the SAIGON DAILY NEWS was censored.But by now the Petrus Ky boys had theirown mimeographed statement out. Signed by representativesof 62 of 64 classes in the school, itread in part:"As the Ministry of Education has broughtpolitics into the schools by hanging banners on theschool gate, and by sending a professor to explainabout the government-in-exile during a schoolceremony; And as the boys of Petrus Ky Schoolhave only the opinions of private citizens aboutthe 'false peace'; And as school boys are not andcan not be pawns of any political forces; And asthe Board of Directors does not respect the opinionof the school boys as expressed by their representatives."The boys of Petrus Ky have therefore decidedto boycott classes indefinitely, to take a firm standif not satisfied by March 13, and to have confidencein their representatives in the struggle for theserequests."Petrus Ky is the oldest and most prestigiouspublic school in Saigon, and the government wasconsiderably embarrassed by this open defiance. Aschool official later said that the Minister of Educationpromptly called the principal. Ho Van Thoand told him to get his boys back in school.
