@TITLE=Protests Favored On Vietnam Fight	
@BODY=The following is a statement by-Marc Friedman, co-chairman ofthe campus SOS, concerning hisreasons for supporting the spring mobilization for peace."They have made a desert andfailed, at peace." a quotation fromTacitus, heads the "Call to VietnamWeek." It is a call to allAmericans to oppose the war inVietnam: a weeklong mobilization,Climaxed by a gigantic marchand rally in New York City.The exact philosophy of the mobilizationis impossible to pin down.There are people from extremistgroups involved; the communistparty, W. E. DuBois Clubs: alsosome hot so extreme people fromsuch organizations as the StudentPeace Union, the Committee for

Non-Violent Action, and theSouthern Christian LeadershipConference. The people involvedagree on one basic thing: that theUnited States should not be involvedin the War in Vietnam, and they are willing's to protest ourmilitary involvement in that faroff land.Based on this primary point ofagreement are many importantbut secondary issues. The Draftis one of these. Most, but definitelynot all, of the people takingpart in the mobilization areagainst the draft in any form.Many others feel that thereshould be some kind of mandatoryservice with a non-militaryalternative. It is felt that without the draft, wars like that in Vietnamnam could not exist: there aresimply not- enough, young peoplewilling to risk their lives in theneo-colonialist submission of asmall country, half way aroundthe world.. It ,is felt that thedraft is prejudiced against thepoor; and who can doubt that thearmy builds animals, not men!The Military EstablishmentA second concern is the relationshipof the military establishment to the American campus. Itis not only through ROTC that theAmerican campus is tied to ourmilitary effort. Many campuseshave large government militarycontracts: case and point in University of Pennslyvania's contractsfor development of chemical warfare.Another aspect of campusinvolvement, is the sad fact thatone must have a satisfactory averagein order not to be drafted; andthen if one is lucky enough tohave such an average (and mostpeople do) there is always theknowledge that their good gradesmight have forced another to goto Vietnam and die.There is also the feeling, althoughnot very widespread, thatthis is basically a racial war. Weare whites fighting a religious waragainst the heathen Asiatics. It isthe rich west using the poorest ofits people to keep the rest of theworld poor and backward, enablingus to exploit them easily. Howtrue this is I do not know; butmany people seem 'to believe itand there is considerable evidenceto support this belief. What mustit seem like to a poor Negro inthe south: he is being sent toVietnam to fight for the "freedom"of a people, when he himself isneither able to vote nor obtain adecent Job. How much can ourleaders mean by the word "freedom"if they are able to use it soeasily with regard to Vietnam,but so rarely and with so much

difficulty in Mississippi. Even themost superficial look will tell onethat the "free world" is not free;rather it is that part of the worldwhich agrees with the UnitedStates.
Waste Of Human Resources However, the most important" consideration of those taking partIn the " mobilization is the enormousWaste of "both human andmaterial resources. Over 8,000American soldiers have been killedand 48000 wounded since 'the warbegan in 1961. Over 5,000 killedin the last year. The figures havebeen escalating rapidly and it isnow expected that over 200 Americanswill die in any given week.This neglects entirely the numberof South Vietnamese soldiers killed.President Johnson put thefigure at over 20,000 for the lastyear. Add to that 50,000 VietCong and North Vietnamese, anduntold thousands of civilians. Withone escalation following upon another,there seems to be little indicationthat the figures will godown. This alone should be sufficientreason to end the war. Butadd to that military expendituresof over $30 billion a year for Vietnamalone and the war becomesridiculous. How much is $30 billiona year? It is over $80 milliondollars a day; $53,000 a minute;one Senior Center every hour. Indeedmost of this money is goinginto American industry, but whycouldn't it be spent on somethingworthwhile? There is still anenormous need for hospitals andschools. Build roads, clean up ourseashores and solve the pollutionproblems. The money is badlyneeded right here at home. Wast-pure stupidity.As said in the "Call": "Finally,we propose that the focus of Endthe War in Vietnam Week be on:(1) Bringing the GI's home now;(2) Opposing the draft, and supportingthe right of individuals torefuse to cooperate with the militarysystem; and (3) Ending campuscomplicity with the war effort."We support these objectives and therefore, will be takingpart in the Spring Mobilization toEnd the War in Vietnam.