@TITLE=Seminar Program Desires Opinion
@BODY=Over 100 invitational letters have been sent out this week as the first step toward instituting a Free Seminar Program <FSP) at Bowdoin. The letters invited each member of the faculty to offer a" seminar this semester on a topic of his choice. The deadline for replies is February 20, according to Robert Seibel, FSP organizer. 
The seminars will provide the opportunity for close discussion of topics outside the regular core of classroom subject matter. With the pressure of exams, grades, and credit removed, the emphasis will be shifted to the interest of the participants, and it is hoped that some- thing nearer the ideal learning situation will be achieved.
Students will be expected to do some reading in preparation for the seminar meetings, but the amount of work' will vary among the different seminars. Where possible the suggestion reading list will be included in the FSP catalogue. Wide Range Of Subjects
Experience at other colleges has shown that the range of subjects
Offered is both varied and interesting. Besides encompassing particular specialities of the faculty members, many topics of current interests are found in lists obtained from other programs. Some topics used in the past have been: LSD, Sarte, Black power, Bartok- the fourth B? Vietnam, Saul Bellow, Eros and Civilization, The Political Cartoon, Is God Dead?, and the role of Philosophy today. 
Once replies are in, a catalogue will be prepared, and students will be Abel to register for the seminars early in March. The seminar meetings will continue until May. The program is patterned after several similar systems at colleges and universities throughout the nation, and since Bowdoin is so small a great amount of flexibility is found in the proposed FSP. Boston University is the only other New England institution with such a program also initiated the seminars this year.
 At Bowdoin the program is designed to have discussion oriented seminars, on a completely voluntary basis, with no grades or credit given. Faculty members will act more or less as discussion guides. The topics will be determined by what the members of the faculty offer. It has been suggested to them that they use FSP as the opportunity to teach the course they have always wanted to teach. 
Seminar meeting times will be scheduled	at the convenience of the participating faculty members and will be noted in the FSP catalogue. Meeting places will also be arranged. It is hoped that each seminar will meet at least once a week for a minimum of an hour, and this can be modified according to the needs of the subject at the discretion of the faculty member. 
Experimental Basis
The program will begin this semester on a trial basis, dependent on the response of both faculty and students. It is realized that some faculty members, though interested in the program, will be too busy this semester to participate. Since the reply form allows them to indicate this, they will be contacted during the next semester, when they would probably plan to participate. 
"The possibilities of such a program are tremendous and exciting. It can bring the outside world a little closer to Bowdoin, inject some much needed enthusiasm into the learning process, make closer faculty relations, and permit challenging opportunities for exploration into areas outside the normal classroom material. In the future, seminars need not be conducted within the confines of the semester, but can be started and terminated at the convenience of the participants," according to Siebel. 
