@TITLE=Student Opinion At Draft Meeting Voluntary Hitch
@BODY=It would be difficult, in view of the Bowdoin campus experience, to believe that such groups as the Young Americans for Freedom and the Students for a Democratic Society could agree on anything. Nevertheless, on February 5 at a Washington conference sponsored by Moderator Magazine, YAF and the SDS along with thirteen other student organizations drafted a policy statement sharply opposing the present draft system.
The conference agreed that the present system is inconsistent with the ideals of democratic government, and urged alternatives to the present selective service. 
"The present draft system with its inherent injustices is incompatible with the traditional American principles of individual freedom within a democratic society, and that for this reason the draft should be eliminated.
"An urgent need exists within our society for young people to become involved in the elimination of such social ill's as ignorance, poverty, racial discrimination, and war." 
The present system of "selective service" arose, strangely enough. From an early post-war measure to provide for universal military training. The rising draft call developing from the Vietnam conflict has focused criticism on what is alleged to be inequalities in the selective service, primarily student deferments. Some quarters have argued that such deferments arterially deprived. Certain "civil rights" groups have claimed racial discrimination in draft selection. 
General Lewis B. Hershey, the government "Chief employment counselor," has pointed out that the government's manpower needs are limited, and that "selective service" is the most practicable and economical means of supplying the armed forces. 
The two major alternatives to the Selective Service, universal military training and a voluntary military force, seems to have caused a split among the generations. The former is strongly supported by veterans organizations, several important members of Congress especially those on the Senate Armed Services Committee, and such political leaders as former President Eisenhower. Supposedly, its adherents claim that every male citizen would have the basic military fundamentals to cope with a national emergency. 
The main drift of opinion at the Moderator Conference, according to New York Times reporter Neil Sheehan, appeared to be in favor of the latter alternative, voluntary military service. First, this provision would eliminate any existing inequities in the present -> system. Its proponents argue that it would guarantee the professional expertise necessary in sophisticated technical warfare. Third, members from almost all political backgrounds questioned the consistency of government impressment in a democratic, libertarian society. 