@TITLE=The Torch Of Freedom
@BODY=Once again a school year has begun, a year not unlike the ones that went before it, both at Bowdoin and in the real world. The communists (Russian, Chinese, and domestic varieties—the sour taste in the mouth is still the same) continue their unrelenting efforts to do us in, and the same tiresome parade of university professors, irresponsible students, publicity-hungry lawmakers, clergymen, and many others who should know better still espouse their causes and sign petitions, always alert for the chance to stab their country in the back and always unwilling to stand by it in its time of great peril. Many of them are deluded; some of them are well-meaning; and all of them are wrong. Yes, wrong, because they ally themselves with the forces of tyranny in a time when it is desperately important that free men resist with all possible effort the greatest imperialist powers the world has every known—Russia and China. But, they march, and sit-in, and decry, and denounce their country. No vilification or slander, to lie or half-truth, no twisted news story or slanted yes-photograph, is too much for them to use. (Why is it that we always hear of our allies' 'atrocities," and never the enemy's? Why are our failures played up, and the enemy's ignored?) This much is the same, still, nationwide. Of course, it is apparent that the American electorate has no time to waste upon the apostles of defeat, for their candidates were voted down time and time again across the nations. But still the cancer breeds and festers. "Honest dissent," they cry. But, if the situation were reversed, would they give us the same privileges? Ask the Hungarian patriot, the Tibetan peasant, the nuns fleeing China, the Soviet writer imprisoned in an insane asylum, the South Vietnamese village chief. See how "honest dissent" is encouraged in those countries so many of our citizens are quick to defend, the nations where communists are in control of influential. The Reds were all for an honest election in the Dominican Republic—until they lost it. Then they were back in the streets again, crying "fraud" because a nation refused to sell itself into slavery. By all means, respect their right of free speech, for this is still a free nation (Well, sort of, anyway.) But for Heaven's sake, never let them have their way. For "the end of that game is oppression and shame, and the nation that plays is is lost." But we are not lost yet—far from it. Our military might is second to none in the world, and no nation has ever used that might with such restraint or for such good purposes as has the United States, no matter what the liars and the slanderers may claim, or the governments with the blood of innocent millions on their hands may say. (More people have been exterminated in Russia and Red China than Hitler ever dreamed of doing away with.) And we, as a nation, have not lost sight of our revolutionary principles, the principles that have stood us in good stead for so long. Communist revolutions, on the other hand, are not constructive, as ours was, springing as it did from the native aspirations of a people for their rights as Englishmen. The Reds seek to destroy and eliminate all of the freedoms we fought so hard for and hold so dear. You see, the American's final basic love for his country has not changed, either, and the chances are good that free men, fighting for the independence from tyranny of a weak state, will yet keep that tyranny at bay. That, too, has not changed. 
