@TITLE=Collegiate Press Reports From Vietnam:French Education Thwarts Nationalism
@BODY=SAIGON, South Vietnam (CPS) — "We have nonational education," a young high school teachersaid here recently. He was bothered by a problemthat will plague South Vietnamese governments"for years to come, in war and in peace.Simply stated, the national curriculum for publichigh schools, drawn up by the Ministry ofEducation in Saigon and used in each of thecountry's public schools, is French. The programis French, the administrative techniques areFrench, most of the textbooks are French, manyof the teachers are French-trained, and by thetime they graduate the brightest students havelearned to think in French.By its own admission, one of the government'smost pressing needs is the development of a senseof nationhood among South Vietnam's dozens ofethnic, religious, cultural and regional groups. Yetits most obvious potential tool—public educationsystematically teaches young Vietnamese thatWestern values and institutions are superior totheir own national heritage.For 40 years nationalism has been the burningissue in Vietnamese politics. Now the Viet Congare trying to drive out the Americans and theirlackeys in the name of nationalism, and in thename of nationalism non-Communist Vietnamesevow they will never submit to a Communist takeoverof South Vietnam. Ironically, to continue thestruggle both sides have become increasingly dependenton foreign arms, foreign supplies, foreigntraining and foreign personnel.

Thus, unfortunately for those Vietnamese whowant neither Communism nor Americanism, a nationalistsolution to the war is no longer possiblehere. But even if it were, South Vietnam wouldstill be in hock to foreign influence for some timeto come. Peace will only bring more foreigners tobuild back what other foreigners have destroyed.A lock at one of the country's best public highschools shows why.The Quoc Hoc, or National High School, frontson the south bank of the River of Perfumes inHue, across Le Loi Boulevard from a long greengarden mall . . . Beyond the main gate of modifiedChinese design is a quadrangle of two-story buildingsin French colonial pink. Clumps of bambooand other exotic shrubs dot the grounds.The school was founded as a French lycee in 1896. For many years there was no better pedigreein Vietnam; among the Quoc Hoe's mostillustrious graduates were Ngo Dinh Diem andVo Nguyen Giap. In 1947 the French turned itover to the Vietnamese, and it has since been runas the best of Hue's seven public high schools. TheFrench shadow lingers, but the greatness of thepast is gone. Even the interscholastic athleticprogram has been abandoned.There are 1800 boys at the Quoc Hoc. Theearnest young vice principal, Hong Giu Luu, explainsthat 1900 were enrolled at the beginningof the year. "But many have been drafted. Somehave to work to support their families. Some cannotcome into Hue from their villages—they arecontrolled by the Viet Cong." This last explanationof course may be interpreted in several differentways.Students are classified into three lower andthree upper forms, which correspond roughly toAmerican junior and senior high school. Upperform students are asked to choose between threemajor programs: mathematics, the experimentalsciences, or letters. Fully 65 percent choose math,23 percent opt for the sciences, and letters getsthe remaining 12 percent.
There appear to be several reasons for this imbalance.In past years math was the most challengingprogram, since engineering and relatedfields were the most prestigious professional careersopen to a Vietnamese under the French.Secondly, by common consent the letters program,especially the all-important final examination orbaccalaureate, is much more taxing; the sciencesrequire too much memorization; math by comparisonis the gut course, though Mr. Luu estimatedthat only 20 percent of the students canfollow it easily.

(One young teacher complains that all three program's suffer from a heavy 'emphasis on rotelearning rather than independent thinking.' Hecites this as a major reason for the atrophiedcharacter- of many Vietnamese institutions, fromgovernment bureaucracies and Constituent Assembliesto daily newspapers.) Finally, in these uncertaintimes, math is simply a lot safer thanprograms which might take the bright studentinto the whirlwind of politics and public affairs.
But no matter which major a student chooses,he must study 11 subjects at once; this is true ofevery public high school in South Vietnam. Thescattershot national curriculum requires that eachyear an upper form student must be exposed to:Vietnamese, English, French, history, geography,mathematics, physics, chemistry, natural sciences(meaning biology), civics, and physical education.But the curriculum shows even more clearlythat Vietnamese high school students are gettinga foreign education. One might expect that themath and science programs would have little bias,either foreign or patriotic. Yet most of the textsare either French or translations from the French:the math is French math; the chemistry comesout of French laboratories; and the physics textsoften refer to technical problems that would challengea French boy but leave a Vietnamese boycold.
It's no wonder. With an hour or two a week, andlittle emphasis on Vietnamese history and geographyin the French-oriented baccalaureate exam,why should they take them seriously? Yet theSouth Vietnamese government is supposedly trying to build some consciousness of national culture, as a prerequisite for putting a nation together. 

Civics too requires only an hour or two of listeningper week. In five years, a Quoc Hoc studentis exposed to: (1) family relationships; ancestorworship and filial piety; and traffic regulations.(2) school relationships; duty to teachers, discipline,dress etiquette; and more traffic regulations.(3) social relationships; language, customsand religious institutions. (4) the Rights of Man(from the United Nations Charter, 1948); politicaltheories cf democracy, socialism, and communism;and national institutions - the constitution, thedraft, elections, taxes, etc. (5) economics (freetrade, currency, etc.) and political science.Political science covers "the Eastern democraticspirit" (Confucius, Mencius, Sun Yat-sen andVietnamese village councils), "the Western democraticspirit" (Britain's constitutional monarchy,the American revolution and the republican-federalsystem, and the Third and Fourth FrenchRepublics—but not the Fifth), and Dictatorship(Nazi Germany, Fascist Italy, and Communismin Russia and Eastern Europe—but not in Chinaor North Vietnam).I asked Thanh if his civics professor had evertalked about the Constituent Assembly that shapedSouth Vietnam's new Constitution. "No," he said,"not the Constituent Assembly. We talk aboutlaws and things like that." From what I couldtell, there is absolutely no effort to stimulatethought or discussion on Vietnam's present politicalproblems, or its future as a nation. (In fairness,teachers can hardly be blamed for this situation. Teaching relevant politics is probably a goodway to land in jail.)The desire to go to America for college raisesthe next specter over Vietnamese "national" education.Hundreds of South Vietnam's best studentsare going to the United States every year on Americangovernment scholarships. Many of these who returnwill want to incorporate American ideas intothe curriculum. Already a number of professors inthe country's five universities want to change thelanguage of instruction—not from French to Vietnamese,but from French to English
But for the moment, American influence in secondaryeducation is only beginning to be felt. Thedominant strain is still French, and it probablywill be for years to come. As Nguyen Due Mai, anoutspoken science teacher at Quoc Hoc, says:"Not only do we have a French educational system,but it's 20 years old. It was copied from theFrench in 1947, and hasn't been changed since itwas instituted. I still must explain to my studentsthat Lavoisier is not the last word in chemistry."