@TITLE=Collegiate Press Reports From Vietnam:
@BODY=PART II 
Editors Note:In the first part of this two-part series, Howard Moffett, Collegiate Press Service correspondent in South Vietnam, described primarily in physical and organizational terms the competition between the Saigon government and the Viet Gong for control over and support of the population. 
Both sides in the Vietnam war are using all the available power they can muster to gain support of the population. Yet, there is another dimension to the conflict between the elites of the government and the Viet Cong, and it is best expressed in terms of their values.
One side claims a sincere anti-colonialism refined by fire through twenty-one years of war. It emphasizes social justice and especially the abolition of privilege. It travels closer to the ground, and more often has succeeded in identifying itself with the simple virtues and viewpoints of the peasantry. Furthermore, it has often succeeded in identifying all civil authority, which the peasant tends to view as arbitrary and inimical to his interests, with the other elite (both sides try to do this). It stresses the necessity for social struggle, and to wage this struggle it has built up a system of authority which is unified and centralized to the point of regimentation. 
Discipline is strict, and apparently little deviation from the official point of view is tolerated lest the infrastructure's effectiveness be weakened. Personal freedom and ambition seem to be subordinated (sometimes voluntarily, sometimes not) to collective goal. 
The other elite claims nationalism, but has become increasingly reliant on foreign arms and aid to achieve it. It too speaks of social justice and the abolition of privilege, but it lays greater stress on the protection of personal freedoms, fortunes and points of view. As a result, differences often become outright dissensions. 
This elite is anything but unified. It is riddled with factions competing for influence across political, religious, regional and institutional lines. It has maintained a significant degree of personal and civil liberty at the expense of the continuation of privilege and even organized corruption.
Yet this elite, heavily dependent on foreign aid because of its own factionalism and widespread corruption, is unified in opposing the regimentation and loss of personal liberty imposed by the other elite areas it controls. 
What is perhaps difficult for American intellectuals to understand is that, though they are often abused by those in power at any given time, the convictions of the second elite run as deep and sincere as those of the first. The issue is better expressed by a leading Vietnamese intellectual, Ton That Then, in a recent article in the Asia Magazine: 
One may ask why the Vietnamese fight, and what has sustained them for son long. The answer can be summed up to two words: liberation and freedom. Those are the aims for which they fought, suffered, and died and for which, I think, they will continue to fight, suffer and die. And they have found the strength for its in the belief that they fight for a right cause (in Vietnamese ghanh nghia). So long as they continue to believe that their cause is right, they will persist.  And who can convince them that to right, suffer, and die for a right cause is wrong? 
But the tragedy of Vietnam is that the Vietnamese are divided into those who believe in the primacy of liberation, and those who believe in the primacy of freedom. The majority of the first are in the North, and the majority of the second are in the South. Neither the North's nor the South's government offered the Vietnamese people both liberation and freedom. Each offered the Vietnamese only half of what they want. 
This double half-offer, which gives the Vietnamese a sense of half-fulfillment and unfinished business, is the major cause of prolonged division and war, with all its terrible consequences. For not only is Vietnam divided, but each Vietnamese is torn internally by violently conflicting desires. As a citizen, he aspires toward liberation, and as an individual he aspires toward freedom. He cannot give up any of those aspirations without feeling a deep sense of partial alienation. For a man is both citizen and individual, and without both liberation and freedom he is only half a man.
It is against the above background that one can appreciate the cruel fate which has befallen the Vietnamese people — a victim of the mistakes of the statesmen of the great powers, as well as the follies
of their own leaders.

Both the physical war and the psychological war are being fought here at several different levels. There is a struggle to build and destroy infrastructures in each of some 16,000 hamlets. There are squad and platoon-sized engagements between local
Guerillas and government militia, called popular forces. There are terrorists bombings at luxury hotels and in peasant markets. 
The Viet Cong are trying to build up troop concentrations while avoiding pitched battles in the rich Mekong Delta; government leaders, largely through the intermediate agency of United States Special Forces, are trying to win the loyalty of the Central Highland Montagnards, who are generally looked down upon by all Vietnamese, communists and non-communist. 
South of the Demilitarized Zone, full-fledged conventional battles rages between battalions (roughly 1,000 men each) of American Marines and North Vietnamese regulars. "Pacification" cadres from one side or the other are at work in every one of South the only thing these two statements prove is that
Vietnam's 42 provinces.
The struggle has now spilled well beyond the borders of South Vietnam and has become in effect a regional war. Anti-government activity is reported increasing in Laos, northeastern Thailand, and even Burma, while the Hanoi government claims North Vietnam is about to be invaded.
Finally, the international political implications for the rest of Southeast Asia-from Indonesia to East Pakistan — are enormous. And however Americans want to slice it, Southeast Asians see the two major protagonists — competing for power, influence, and the vindication of ideology — as the United States and China.
This, then, is your simple war. 
It is true that American warplanes are bombing and burning and killing civilians, more than you will ever read about in the papers. It is also true that the Viet Gong disembowel good province chiefs, or bad ones, and they do run prison camps under conditions not so far removed from those of Dachau. The only thing these two statements prove is that war is hell, and modern guerrilla war is worse than any other kind. 
What is going on here has two sides, in every usage of the word. It is not just a slaughter of particularly innocent, peace-loving villagers. Nor is it a particularly democratic defense of freedom against terror and tyranny from without. It is a total war. 



