@TITLE=Draft Students Last?
@BODY=President Johnson, in a notable departure from his brand of "consensus government" has asked the country to express to theAdministration opinion on the status of student draft deferments.As students, it is easy to fall into self-satisfied, complacenttrap that we are a privileged class, whose position is so vitalto the welfare of the country as to warrant virtual exemptionfrom the Draft.This view is as fatuous as the one that the Vietnam wardemands unquestioned --service and support. It is nut the-expediencyof the war which should be the justification for universaland random conscription.The concept of equality before the law demands that thehigh school dropout from the city slum should suffer the samerisks as the middle-class student whose social milieu has convenientlyplaced him at Bowdoin.But just what form should this "equal law" take? The President'sproposals do not take into account anything but the manpowerneeds of a warring state, and as such, are only partiallysatisfactory as equalizers.Coupled with the elimination of deferments should be aprogram of alternative service in which participation in thePeace Corps or VISTA, the Job Corps would fulfill obligations toserve one's country. The channeling of the efforts of Draft-ageyouth into the positive aspects of. service would create a moregenuine and universal respect for obligations to one's country.The military expediency of the Draft can only be alleviatedby a prompt and necessary de-escalation of the Vietnam warThen the social merits of universal, but not necessarily militaryservice can be realized.We call on all supporters of this view to voice their opinionsto their Congressmen and Senators. When the present SelectiveService legislation expires June 30, reform should not comethrough simple Executive directive, but through an overhaul ofthe entire Draft structure.If the above described goals are to be achieved, a completelynew look must be taken at the present aims of the System. 

