@TITLE=College Leaders Voice Opinions to President
@BODY=Douglas Bliken, President of the Student Council, was one of a large number of student leaders throughout the country who sent an open letter to President Johnson concerning Vietnam. According to the the New York Times: Student leaders from 100 colleges and universities have signed an open letter to President Johnson expressing their anxiety and doubts about United States involvement in the war in Vietnam. The letter is not one of protest so much as one of inquiry as to why and on what grounds we are bringing total war to Vietnam. The students strive to make clear that they write neither in protest nor in outspoken dissent, but rather to: 
"... Encourage a frank discussion of some of the problems raised by the American role in war. "If such a discussion clarified American objectives in Vietnam, it might help to reserve the drift. Which is now from confusion to disaffection." 
These students as elected leaders of their respective student bodies reflect not only a more moderate but also a more universal school of opinion than do members of the student New Left whose radical thoughts have received, long-winded attention by the news media. 
To quote the New York Times: "The tone of the letter is restrained and respectful. The letter is presented to the President as a report on the sentiments of 'significant and growing numbers of our contemporaries (who) are deeply troubled about the posture of their government in Vietnam.'"
The letter notes "apparent contradictions" between the administration's proclaimed policies and the military's actions. Within the text of the letter the the students only point out areas of contradiction and confusion. They then submit to the President's consideration "some of the questions agitating the academic community."The students do not pretend to know the answers or even to have a through grasp of the whole situation, but they do know and do point out on what issues they are confused, where they and many others, in high schools, colleges, graduate schools, or in business, see government policies and actions at odds with each other. 
The letter is the outgrowth of a debate at the National Student Association conference held last summer on the campus of the University of Illinois. The initial spark was struck during a speech by Allen K. Lowenstein, a previous president of the organization and now a lawyer and active Reform Democrat in Manhattan. At the conclusion of the debate, about 2am a group of about 200 students met and agreed to draft the letter in the time remaining in the conference. Postal expenses were covered by the simple means of then and there passing the hat. The drafting of the letter itself proceeded despite numerous and occasionally vehement debates over the wording of the text. However, once completed most of the students contacted readily lent their names. Concluded Robert Powell of the University of north Carolina: "This letter is an expression of a new mood that should shock the President."  
