@TITLE=Collegiate Press Reports From Vietnam: Student Leaders Explain Role in War
@BODY=SAIGON, South Vietnam (CPS)—Thousands of
Vietnamese disappeared from Central Vietnam
after Prime Minister Ky brought his heel down on
the Buddhist-led Struggle Movement in Hue and
Danang last spring.
They were students, soldiers, citizens, priests.
Virtually all were non-Communist Vietnamese nationalists,
but they were bitterly opposed to the
American-supported military government in Saigon.
Some were imprisoned at government detention
centers throughout Vietnam ; of these a few have
subsequently been released on good behavior.
Others, it is rumored, joined the National Liberation
Front. Still others went into hiding—a few
have given themselves up in the months since
May, but many are still trying to keep one step
ahead of the National Police.
This is the story of three who did not join the
NLF. They were Buddhist student leaders in Hue,
the ancient imperial capital of the River of Perfumes
about which no one can tell you if you
don't know.
Of the three, only K really looks like a
revolutionary. A former president of the Hue
Buddhist Student Association, he is thin and nervous,-smokes continuously. His features are taut,
his eyes dark and darting behind rimless spectacles,
and his hair won't stay down. He does not
like to talk in English, but when he begins to
speak in Vietnamese one listens intently and nods
whether one understands him or not.
K—— was in Hue when the Struggle Movement
began. For several weeks, he traveled with "Thich
Thien Minh as the monk sought support for the
Struggle in Dalat and Saigon. When Ky sent his
troops against Danang, K went into hiding
in Saigon. In August the government paid him.
the dubious honor of announcing that he had joined
the Viet Cong, along with several other student
leaders none of whom actually went over to the
NLF. He has stayed indoors for eight months
reading; talking with a few trusted friends, never
venturing into the streets for so much as a haircut.

T —j by contrast, could pass for a young executiveon the make. He is smooth, carefullygroomed, self-confident, and handles English well.In fact the only thing he cannot handle is a questionabout where the Buddhist student movementgoes from here.His appearance belies what he has been through.Captured in the initial crackdown, he was held inSaigon from June to December:For the first twomonths he was kept in a small room without light.His head was shaved and he says he was beatendaily while undergoing intensive questioning. "Itried to explain to them that I was a nationalist,that I only wanted to build a national assembly,that I didn't want Ho Chi Minh to take over ourcountry," he said. Clearly they weren't convinced.P is brooding, heavy-lidded, slow of speech,aloof but meticulously courteous. In a recent intramuraldrama festival he played a court mandarin,and even in Western clothes he looks somethinglike a last Confucian. He came to Saigon at oncewhen Danang was attacked, and has been hidingever since.I met them several times in a sparsely furnishedstudents' room in Saigon. The story that followsis told largely in their own words. It should beread not as an account of fact but as a point ofview, factual at times, that is held by some ofVietnam's leading Buddhist students. After all,Vietnamese politics— like American—are fashionednot out of facts but out of what people believe.
There are four Buddhist student associations inSouth Vietnam one each at the university centersof Saigon, Dalat, Hue and Quinhon. All areyoung; the University of Saigon itself was establishedonly in 1954.Partly because Ngo Dinh Diem discouraged studentpolitical activity, partly because of a traditionalBuddhist reluctance to take sides on temporalissues, the four groups from the beginningemphasized cultural and social rather than politicalactivities. "We participated in politics as citizens,not as Buddhist students," the three young mensaid several times.Yet twice in the last three years during the1963 revolution against Diem and again in theStruggle Movement last spring—Buddhist studentshave taken to the streets in an attempt to topplegovernments.The Hue leaders explained that political actioncould only come by agreement among all fourassociations. Their last joint meeting was in Hue
last March, just before the outbreak of the Struggle-Movement.'"We wanted to help our country," said K ."We decided that the cause of most of Vietnam'ssocial problems was the war. Therefore our problemwas: how to stop the war? We felt that theVietnamese people did not start the war, and thatthey are not responsible for it. And we thoughtthat to have peace, we needed a strong and independentgovernment. Therefore we had to let theworld know we wanted peace and a strong, independentgovernment—this is what the StruggleMovement was all about."What would a strong, independent governmentbe?"—One supported by a majority of the peopleand acting as the people desire. We don't want, anextremely strong, independent government nowbecause that is impossible—but we want an electedgovernment, not one kept in power by theAmericans."P-- explained, "The Ky government is a governmentfor Americans, not for Vietnamese ... IfMr. Johnson says 'We must fight to the last managainst the Communists,' Mr. Ky will say 'Wecannot negotiate.' But if Mr. Johnson says Let usseek peace,' Mr. Ky will say the same words. Sowe can say that Mr. Ky has no real stand for our country."
"The mistake of the United States is always to support that government which supports the American government. Americans seem to believe that a strong Vietnamese government is a government supported by Americans."

T --- Added, "The lesson of the past three years is that the United States government does not want leadersresponsive to the hopes of the Vietnamese people."I asked if he believed the United States had controlled allthe coups d'etat since 1963 "Surely," he said.Observers in Vietnam still argue over the extentto which the Struggle Movement was influencedby NLF agitators. One American newsman, forexample, swears that Thich Tri Quang's radiobroadcasts were dictated by Viet Cong propagandists.The argument proves little except that after six years' of open warfare it is still difficult todistinguish between Vietnamese nationalists, Communists,anti-Communists and non-Communistsfor those who count themselves in the first groupmay also lie in any of the last three.
At first K --, T--, and P-- stated flatly that there were no Viet Cong elements involvedin the struggle. Then T said, "Precisely how canwe know whether a citizen is a VC or anationalist? They always try to infiltrate, hut weremained in control of the movement . . . The VCwould consider as enemies the leaders of theStruggle Movement."Adding to the confusion was the fact that theVietnamese words for the Buddhist-led StruggleDau tranh- -carry roughly the same meaning as theNLF's term for its "popular struggle" program-Day tranh. The Hue students explained: "Theterms are commonly used by both sides to indicateundying opposition to the established regime. TheNLF is only the best organized struggle movement.""The important distinction," they said, "is inpurposes or -aims. The aim of 'our Struggle was toask for a constitutional assembly in order to cometo a civilian government. The aim of the Communistsis to communize Vietnam and make ita part of the Communist bloc."Their attitude toward Communism was muchharder than many peace-loving American studentsmight expert. Listen to the same young; men thathave just demanded free elections: "Since we arenationalists, we cannot accept a Communist victoryin the elections. Communism is not acceptable—socially, historically or culturally—to Vietnamesesociety. Communism is connected to foreign powersand therefore it is against the interests ofVietnam."They do not want United States troops to leave Vietnam,for that would mean a takeover by the Communists.At the same time, they maintain that onlyif the United States permits a truly independent Vietnamesegovernment to emerge will the Vietnamese themselvesrally to drive out the Viet Cong.
To what extent then is the National LiberationFront a Communist organization?

"—By Communist, we mean anyone directedand controlled by the international Communistbloc. When we say Viet Cong we refer to thosewho have infiltrated from North Vietnam andChina. But there are patriots within the NLFwhom we do not call VC." ("Viet Cong" is shortfor "Vietnam Cong San," literally meaning VietnameseCommunists. Thus the students are moreexclusive and more correct in their use of theterm than the government, the press, and mostAmericans, who tend to use "VC" as a catch-allfor NLF supporters.)

