@TITLE=The Spectator
@BODY=Mr. Johnson claims to be a Christian; and he is president of a predominately Christian nation. But obviously, he, and other "Christians" who back his war in Vietnam, are either liars of hypocrites. "Many of them are deluded; some of them are well-meaning'; but none of them are Christians. Almost any position one might desire to take might be substantiated in the Bible, except the position of hate and war. Christ preached love, which every one who has read the Bible plainly knows. In his "Sermon on the Mount" Christ said in plain language what it meant to be a Christian. Christ said: "Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God." Yet thousands of self-styled Christians, while clamoring for escalation of the war in Vietnam, attack those who desire peace in that war-torn country. They claim that we must fight and kill to counteract the treachery of the "communists." We must combat their evil with still greater evil. But did not Christ say: "Ye have heard that it hath been said, an eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth: But I say unto you, that ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on the right cheek, turn to him the other also?" One can either involve himself with power politics or with Christianity; no matter how hard some hypocritical people try they will not mix. Neither can be concerned about the other. "Ye have heard that it hath been said, thou shall love thy neighbor, and hate thine enemy. But I say unto you, love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you and persecute you"; thus spoke Christ. Yet some people, in his name, lie, hate, and kill. Perhaps Dostoyevsky, in his chapter on "the Grand Inquisitor" in the Brothers Karamazov, was right: perhaps the Church has changed the message of Christ from love to hate. Where Christ called "love" many ministers and priests are screaming "escalate" and "kill off the Viet Long." Perhaps they are thinking of politics, perhaps of ephemeral, earthly things; but they are certainly not thinking of Christ and of Heaven. But there are indications that Dostoyevsky was not completely right. A considerable minority of clergymen have spoken out against this barbarous war our government is waging. And many other fine people see that a war of this kind is against the historical ideals of this country. I don't mean to say that Johnson and his lackeys don't have the legal right to wage this war, or any other war they please. We gave him this right two years ago. But since then he has lied, and mislead this country; he has abused his power and there-by gained the enmity of most of the world. And all this he has done under the pretense of being a Christian, implying that this is in some way a Christian war. Let him admit that he is a heather, that he does not believe in the words of Christ; then let him do as he will and let the country beware. But that he can call himself a Christian and in the same breath continue to escalate the war is disgusting; and every good Christian must be sickened by it. Slowly, but surely, the people of this country are finding out what kind of a man President Johnson really is. "Jesus said unto him, thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, with all thy soul, and with all thy mind. This is the first and great commandment. And the second is like unto it. Thou shalt love thy neighbor as thyself. On those two commandments hang all the law and the prophets." Yet the hypocrites still stand on the street corners affirming often and in loud voices, their faith in God "for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking." "Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven. But he that doth the will of my Father which is in heaven." "When will they ever learn; when will they ever learn?"