@TITLE=SDS RECOGNITION SCORED
@BODY=To the Editor:I want to register my opposition to the vote takenBy the Student Council last Monday eveningwhich permits the Students for a Democratic Society(SDS) to use the name of this College in conjunctionwith their activities. Prior to StudentCouncil action members of this organization felt ittheir right to use Bowdoin's name in connectionwith the protest against the war in Vietnam. Evidenceof this is recorded on the front page of theBrunswick Times-Record on Monday, April 17which shows a picture of a sign carried in themarch in New York City. The sign says, "BOWDOINis against the WAR."Further, I oppose The official recognition of SDSbecause it allows them to go before the BlanketTax Committee in order to procure funds for thesupport of their activities. Like all Bowdoin studentsI contribute money to the Blanket Tax butin so doing I in no way wish this money to be usedindiscriminately by any and all political factionson Campus. It is a negation of my personal freedomnot to be able to choose to support or not supportradical political organizations (SDS, YAF,SNCC etc.). This freedom is violated when suchorganizations are allowed the possibility of gainingmy financial support when I am opposed to theirtenets.In addition, I do not feel that it is in the bestinterests of the College to allow its name to becomeofficially associated with any radical politicalfaction. In my mind unless the action of the StudentCouncil is reversed there is no logical justificationfor not recognizing a Bowdoin Chapter ofthe K.K.K. or the Nazi Party.I hope that for once the inactive majority onthis Campus will arouse themselves and examinethe implications of the action taken by the StudentCouncil. If people other than myself feel that theirfreedom of choice has been jeopardized I wish thatthese sentiments would be made known at the nextStudent Council meeting (which is open to allmembers of the student body) and to current StudentCouncil representatives so that the vote takenlast week may be reversed.Edwin L. RussellVice President Student Council