@TITLE=Annual Campus Chest Weekend Will Aid Vietnamese Children
@BODY=A 100 war-burned and war-injured Vietnamese children will cometo the United States for medical treatment in the near future. Thisis the goal of the newly formed Committee of Responsibility, a groupof prominent American physicians and clergymen dependent uponfinancial support from individuals and organizations throughout theUnited States. Bowdoin, through1its 1967 Campus Chest Weekend,will support the committee financially.Disturbing Statistics,415,000 civilians have been killed in the war in Vietnam since1961, according to estimates published in the January issue of Rampartsmagazine. The Associated Press has reported, in a dispatchdated October 24, 1966, that the war-injured ratio was as high as tencivilians to one soldier. Whether or not one accepts absolutely thevalidity of these statistics, it has become evident that civilians inVietnam are sustaining a greater number of casualties than aremilitary personnel.A more startling statistic, perhaps, can be deducted from a 1964UNESCO study indicating that 47.5% of the population of Vietnamwas under sixteen years of age. Nearly half of the civilian fatalityestimates, therefore, are children.- Transportation, Surgery, Home CareIn January of this year a group of concerned Americans establisheda committee "to make available facilities and services in theUnited States for the treatment and rehabilitation of war-burnedand injured Vietnamese children who cannot be adequately cared forin Vietnam." The group, which became known as the Committee ofResponsibility, is attempting to raise three million dollars for transportation,surgery, and temporary home care, particularly for childrensuffering from severe burns. The program, which will initiallybenefit 100 children, will be expanded as finances permit.The committee is currently engaged in "obtaining consent forentry and exit of the Vietnamese children, securing space on United States
Government and commercial aircraft, and appealing directly to theAmerican people."No Distinction MadeAt a January 11 news conference, Dr. Herbert Needleman, apsychiatrist at Temple University Health Sciences Center and chairmanof the committee's board of directors, said that the group willmake "no distinction between children wounded by one side or another",selection being based solely on medical need.