@TITLE=Draft Information Service Sponsored By AFSC
@BODY=The most extensive counseling service for conscientious objectors in New England - and probably the most extensive draft counseling service in the nation - is being conducted just off Harvard Square in Cambridge. The Draft Information Service, a major attempt to advise draft-age men who oppose war or feel they qualify for deferment under the present law and are having trouble receiving it, is a project of the American Friends Service Committee's New England Regional office, 41A Brattle Street. "Our counseling program is probably the largest in the nation" said Steve Hedger, an AFSC staff member. "If there's a larger one, it's in New York, and as far as I know our program is larger than any in New York." Hedger said that the aim of the program is educational, not political: to give men the facts about the draft, conscientious objection, and non-cooperation. But the facts are not simple. "Between the position of the men who willingly accept 1-A classification and the position of men who burn their draft cards," Hedger said, "there is an ocean of doubt and misunderstanding." During the summer an average of 100 young men contacted the AFSC office for draft counseling each month. Since the start of the year, the number is increasing. To meet the challenge, Hedger and AFSC staff member Andy Rudin have been conducting training sessions to enable concerned clergy, lawyers, and other members of the professional community help them with the counseling. Each of the 18 draft classifications is only a label for a whole set of rules, rights, privileges, obligations, and possibilities. Any man who fits the requirements of a draft category is entitled to the rights which the classification carries with it, and is subject to its obligations. It is making clear the full implications of the draft choice which the AFSC aims at with its counseling service, Hedger said. "Because we have a long history of involvement in draft issues, and have personal experience with the choices men have to make, we can give competent counsel in there's matters," he added. A recent Supreme Court decision in the case of U.S versus Seeger is of particular concern for young men who sincerely feel they cannot accept a 1-A classification and all that it implies. This decision - which clarified the draft law on the requirement of belief in a Supreme Being for those who wish to be classified as conscientious objectors - made eligible many whose only previous choice was between the army and jail. Draft boards now recognize that "any sincere belief, which in one's life fills the same place as a belief in God fills in the life of an orthodox believer," may qualify as a conscientious objector. The American Friends Service Committee was organized in 1917 by American Quakers and has sought to give conscientious objectors to war, and others, a constructive alternate to military service since World War I. Persons interested in the program should contact the Draft Information Service American Friends Service Committee, 44A Brattle St Cambridge or phone 851-3150. 