@TITLE=Collegiate Press Reports From Vietnam: A Hundred Failures, A Hundred Reasons
@BODY=SAIGON, South Vietnam (CPS)—Trang, whichis not his real name, came to see me this morning.He's been on vacation since the government shutdown his newspaper in December. The GUARDIANhad always been critical of Ky and the junta, butits pointed coverage of Tran Van Van's assassination—specifically its refusal to assume he wasmurdered by the Viet Cong—brought the lid down.Trang is soft-spoken, but capable of bitter invective.He's fond of imported cigarettes, and readsboth Maugham and Balzac in the originals. He leda Viet Minh company in the war against theFrench. Withal he is one of the most charmingand loyal men I know.He had nothing particular on his mind. Wetalked about Operation Cedar Falls, Ky, the assembly,the price of rice, the prospects for civiliangovernment. What he had to say wouldn't havemade Mr. Johnson any happier. For example:Item: American soldiers will never beat the VietCong.We had been talking about the United States attempt toraze the Viet Cong jungle stronghold known as theIron Triangle, 30 miles north of Saigon. "Americanscan't defeat the Viet Cong; only the Vietnamesecan do that," he said. But Trang, I protested,the ARVN sure isn't doing it now. (The Army ofthe Republic of Vietnam, except for a few commandersand a handful of units, is notorious forlow morale, inflexibility, sluggishness and devastatingpublic relations.)"Don't blame the ARVN," he replied. "They aregood soldiers, but they must be led. They musthave something to fight for. They must be animatedby a good example." ARVN soldiers get fed on20 cents a day. Most of them have little conceptionof what they are defending (presumably the Vietnamesenation). Most of their officers are stillFrench-trained fat cat hacks.Item: Prime Minister Ky's credibility gap is almostas wide as President Johnson's."Nobody believes him," Trang said. "One day heannounces that press censorship will be lifted, thenext day the papers are full of white spaces. (Thisis true. It happened just last week.) He shouldn'tsay things that he knows will never be done.""The same thing with prices. He says he will doeverything to keep prices down. Last month firstgrade rice was 2100 piastres per hundred kilos.Now it's 3300. (Prices traditionally go up for Tet,the Vietnamese New Year, but a 50 percent risecannot be explained that way.) Just a couple ofmonths ago the Economy Minister announced thatimported United States aid rice would be sold at 900 p's. It's1600 now." And going up.Item; When the people think of the government,they think of two things American influence andcorruption.I had asked him what kind of government mightexpect to win the support of the people. "Therewill be no solution that is not a nationalist solution,"Trang said. (Is that so hard to understand,Mr. Johnson, Mr. Rusk, Mr. McNamara?)He was not optimistic about the chances of Kyand the military stepping aside to allow a transferof pawer to a constitutionally elected civilian government:"If Ky wants to stay in power, there isno reason for the Americans to allow anyone elseto replace him. He's easy to handle. He has notraining, no education, no independent character.His government is full of corruption." But Trang,I said, I have never heard any of his critics callhim personally corrupt."He has his own kind of corruption. One of hisAir Force pilots just came back from the Philippinesand Hong Kong with 600 transistor radios.Do you think he doesn't know about that? Haveyou ever been in the houses of the army staff? (Ihadn't) They have everything—cars, television,refrigerators, air conditioners—and no papers forany of it. It's all illegal. Or the new police chief inRach Gia (a delta town on the Gulf of Thailand):he made 25 million piastres in his first month. Doyou expect the people to love their government?"Item: American technological warfare is continuingto make enemies among the Vietnamese.Trang had just heard from friends in DinhTuong, a delta province southwest of Saigon, thatAmerican defoliation chemicals were killing manycrops. "Even though it is dropped over Viet Congareas, the wind blows it. In some areas near MyTho (the second largest delta town) orange productionis only one-third of last year's crop."These problems are not new, nor are they easyto solve. Basically, they are the same problemsthat faced the late Presidents Ngo Dinh Diem andJohn F. Kennedy. Promises and programs havecome and gone for six years, making cynics out ofthousands of Vietnamese and hundreds of Americansserving in Vietnam. But the problems arestill here.Some of Trang's details may be inaccurate. Thegraft stories would be virtually impossible to verify,and an American might even have troublechecking the report of defoliation in Dinh Tuong.But that's not the point Politically what Trangsaid is just as true as if he had made it all op.Because hundreds of thousands of Vietnamese believeIt They have seen enough of what he was ,talking about enough promises and programsturned Into pork barrels, that they will believeThe picture Trang painted is perhaps ton bleak.There are many non-communist Vietnamese nationalistswho believe progress is being made howeverslowly. By and large they are the ones whowork or deal with Americans.I don't know if Trang is more right than theyare. I don't know how many Vietnamese Trangspeaks for. But I tend to think it is many, manymore than most of the Americans realize.