@TITLE=Democratic Dissent 
@BODY=Legitimate dissension has traditionally been one of the mosthighly respected prerogatives of an American citizen. An American'sright, indeed his duty, to criticize actions of his governmentwhich he believes are immoral or illegal is an essentialdemocratic tenet. The rally to end the war in Vietnam in NewYork tomorrow will be attended by conscientious Americans whoare requesting their leaders to reconsider present United States militarypolicy in Vietnam.There has been an unfortunate tendency in recent monthsto brand those Americans who publicly demonstrate their oppositionto the war in Vietnam as traitors or Communist sympathizers.So short-sighted an attitude is in reality contrary to thefundamentals of American freedom. The man who stands inopposition to his country's foreign policy and reinforces hisbelief with intelligent, active protest is as much to be admiredas the man who supports America in Vietnam and substantiateshis conviction with military service.Thus, we view with dismay and alarm the recent report ofthe House Un-American Activities Committee on supposed communistexploitation in the organization of the Spring Mobilizationto End the War in Vietnam.
In the introduction, the chairman, Representative Edwin E.Willis, supports what he considers legitimate dissent on thegrounds that any careful evaluation of the facts of Vietnam willresult in support for present policies.This "I will defend your right to dissent as long as youdon't dissent with me" attitude is greatly disturbing,- seeminglydenying any possible alternative to our present commitment inVietnam.Contrary to Mr. Willis' witch-hunting statements, we feelstrongly that the Spring . Mobilization represents the broadestpossible spectrum of attitudes towards the war, having in commononly a desire not to take at face value present policy. Tomake a sweeping generalization that such demonstration of concernis playing into the hands of some great communist conspiracyis only a black mark on the traditions of participatorydemocracy.The statements of the campus YAF are a legitimate expressionof one viewpoint towards the war, setting forth an interpretationof the geo-political reasons for United States involvement inSoutheast Asia. We disagree with these interpretations, particularlywhen they say "we are fighting ... a system of governmentthat is imposed by force; sustained by force, and is whollydependent on force for expansion." Surely this is as succinct adescription of the Ky regime as any we've seen.We hope the YAF, and the public in general are capable ofgreater tolerance of dissent, and cognizance of its value, than isthe McCarthyistic HUAC.