@TITLE=Why Raps And Stokelys? Charles Evers Explains
@BODY=Charles Evers began with an apology. "I wonder how Ican speak before college professors and college students whenI've only had a high school education. Please don't blame me ifI break a verb or misue an adjective. Blame the school I wentto." But there wasn't the slightest bit of -apology in the restof Evers' talk on civil rights today.
"I'm not here to call younames, but to explain whyNegroes are acting the waythey are," said the field directorof the NAACP in Mississippi"I'm here to tell you whyNegroes are dissatisfied; whythere are Raps and Stokelys.I'm here to tell you we will nolonger sit back and be deniedour rights."Evers then went on to describehis childhood and thetreatment Negroes have receivedin the South. "When I wasa boy, there were men workingten hours a day for $1.00. Medgarand I didn't have a .chanceto use blackboards in school.We painted a wall black andwrote on it with the crayonstubs that the white studentshad thrown away. We went toschool four months a year in aone room shack with eightgrades. Then you ask whyNegroes don't do something forthemselves."World War II Turning Point"We used to walk three orfour mil', to school, and theyellow school bus would come,by and run us off the road intothe ditch while the little whitekids who had been taught to
hate spit on us. But we stillkept faith in America." Thencame World War II. Accordingto Evers, this was the turningpoint. Southern Negroesmet people from other parts ofthe country and began to1 realizehow badly they were beingtreated. He told how Negrohigh school graduates from THESouth couldn't compete withgraduates from other sectionsParts of the country. When theNegroes returned after helpingdefend American freedom theywere ordered out of their uniformsand refused their guaranteedright to vote. Thus,Evers cited the war as theprecipitating event of the civilrights movement.
"Can't Take No More""But we just can't take nomore. All Americans ought toenjoy their rights. But whenwe came back from the war, wecouldn't register to vote. Ontrips to Chicago, we couldn'tuse the bathrooms in gas stationsand had to go into thewoods. Those are the thingsthat make Stokely the way heis. First, white men say, "Niggersare lazy," but when wetry to get jobs they say no;we're taking jobs from whitemen. What can we do? Someonealways blocks us. Just giveus a chance."Violence Not JustifiedEvers made no attempt tojustify the violence of this summer'sriot, but he did seek toexplain why they occurred. "Idon't want violence and hate.Violence does no good, but thewhite man has taught us tohate. White America is destroyingitself. Other nationsare only waiting for civil war.""You wonder why we're impatient?There isn't a whiteperson who would take for oneday what we've taken for 300years, and we're not going totake anymore. In Mississippithree or four Negroes are beingdrafted for every white boy byall white draft boards. Nowhite man would put up withthis if the situation were reversed.Once you see howNegroes have suffered maybeyou'll ask what you can do andtry to help."Criticizes WarEvers called the war in Vietnama disgrace and said it detractedfrom civil rights. However,he said he believed itwould be wrong to opposePresident Johnson because ofthe war, because Johnson hasdone more for the Negro thanany other President. Said Evers,"we just can't go againstJohnson." He also listed theadvancements Negroes havemade in Mississippi. Motels andhotels are now open to Negroeswho can afford them. Fortytwocounties now have takenintegration of schools. Thereare Negro policemen and deputysheriffs in several cities;there are Negro teachers inwhite school; and Negroes drivetrucks for several industries.He also spoke briefly on whatis called 'Black Power' and saidthat increasingly the civil rightsmovement will be turning toeconomic and political power inorder to continue to makeprogress.