@TITLE=PENTAGON TARGET OF OCTOBER PEACE MARCH
@BODY=WASHINGTON (CPS) - Opponentsof U.S. policy in Vietnamare shifting their tactics from protestsand demonstrations to actualattempts to disrupt the war effort.The new tactics will be testedon October 21 when thousands ofpeople will gather in Washingtonfor a protest which, for some ofthem, will include an attempt to"sit down inside the Pentagon andstop it from working."Dave Dellinger, chairman of theNational Mobilization to End theWar in Vietnam, emphasizes thatthere will be three parts to theOctober 21 demonstration: amarch, a rally, and "an opportunityfor civil disobedience."He says the Mobilization is abroadly based organization with100 groups supporting it and theOctober 21 protest is intended toprovide ways of protest both forthose who wish to march andthose who, in Dellinger's words,"want to do more than dissent,who want to try to stop the war."More Direct Action SeenAlthough in the past a few peoplehave employed such tacticsas lying down in front of trooptrains and refusing to serve inthe Army, mass demonstrations,such as those organized by theMobilization on April 15 in SanFrancisco and New York, haveonly included marches and rallieswith numerous speakers. Therehas been no direct action againstthe war.On October 21 there will actuallybe two marches, one from theLincoln Memorial and the otherfrom the Washington, Monument.The two groups will converge onthe south parking lot of the Pentagon,where there will be a massrally.Jerry Rubin, the full time organizerof the demonstration, saysif there are more than 200,000people, there may be two or threerallies. No one in the Mobilizationleadership has any idea of howmany people will be coming. Thegroup has made arrangements for1,000 buses to bring people downfrom New York City to the demonstration,however.According to Rubin, hippie communitiesfrom New York, SanFrancisco, and possibly Washingtonwill hold a religious ceremonyin which they will form a circlearound the Pentagon to drive outthe evil, which according to someIndian religions, resides in fivesided structures.Pentagon Sit-in PlannedAfter the rally those who wish
to sit-in at the doors of the Pentagon.The object will be to stoppeople from entering the building.Both Dellinger and Rubin say thatanyone who wishes to leave thebuilding will be welcome to do so.Rubin says the sit-in will beboth "symbolic and disruptive."The Mobilization doesn't really expectto shut down the Pentagonwhere as many as 10,000 peoplewill be working that Saturday."The Movement hasn't yet reachedthe stage where it can do that"says Rubin, but Dellinger adds,"We hope people will at leasthave to step over our bodies toget into the building."Father Richard McSorley atheology professor at GeorgetownUniversity says the policy of theMobilization Committee is non-violence"in the Gandhian sense. Ifwe are hit we will not retaliate.We will not break police lines."But Mobilization leaders admitthat they can't guarantee againstthe actions of individuals."If there is a problem of violenceon October 21 it will becaused by the police," Dellingersays.Police Attacks FearedThe committee leaders say theyhave reason to fear police attacks.They point to Sept. 20 whendemonstrators from Women Strikefor Peace were attacked withclubs by police because more than100 were attempting to picket infront of the White House. A recentrule limits the number to 100.At a press conference last weekseveral reporters suggested thatby sitting in at the Pentagon thedemonstrators will be incitingviolence. "There is no reason toclub people who are sitting in nonviolently,"replied Mrs. DonnaAllen, co-chairman of the WashingtonMobilization Committee."They can be arrested peacefully."But Dellinger predicts that"even the police will be orderlyand non-violent on October 21 becauseit will be political suicidefor the Johnson Administration"if they aren't.Adds Dagmar Wilson, leader ofWomen Strike for Peace and arecent visitor to North Vietnam:"One who has. seen the desperationof women who are helpless toprotect their children from violencefrom the skies can't be veryscared of billy clubs and bruises."Dellinger, who just returnedfrom a meeting with North Vietnameseand members of the NationalLiberation Front, also fearsother tactics by the Administration,which he says must eitherpay attention to growing oppositionto the war or attempt to surpressor evade it. He points tonew ordinances "against freespeech," such as the one limitingthe number of pickets in front ofthe White House and another, underconsideration in Congress,which would strictly limit protestson Capitol Hill.
