@TITLE=Coursen Heads Dissent; Will Help Write Platform
@BODY=Professor Herbert Coursen hasorganized a group of DissentingDemocrats in Maine. These areDemocrats who, while remainingloyal to their party, refuse to supportcandidates favoring the warin Vietnam. Dissenting Democratsdesire a cessation of bombing andan end to escalation, so that immediatenegotiations with allforces involved in the conflict maybegin. Should they fail in this,they demand that the DemocraticParty offer an alternative to LyndonJohnson.The loosely structured group isseeking signatures for an advertisementthat will appear in fiveMaine papers on December 17.Part of the advertisement reads,"Mr. President, we advise youand those on every level of governmentthat, from this day on,our campaign funds, our energy,and our votes go to those and onlythose political figures who workfor an end to the war in Vietnam."Coursen explained that thegroup, which was founded in Californiathis June, "is giving frustratedAmericans a chance to rallyaround a case. Until now therehas been only demonstration, frustration,and alienation. We are
giving people a chance to workwithin the system to express dissentand try to change things. Ithas been claimed that we are helpingLBJ by solidifying the establishment,and this may well be.But if we didn't protest he wouldbe easily nominated on a war platform,and we don't want a warplatform. In any case, I don'tthink we are unifying the party.We are doing what our consciencescompel."War Is Deep IssueHowever, the issue is even deeperthan over the war, Coursen indicated."We are disillusionedwith Johnson. There is more thana credibility gap; there is a crisisin confidence. The Johnson administrationhas set a new precedentin living. We can documentlies we've ' been fed over theyears," said Coursen.In particular, he mentioned the
denial of the Defense Departmentthat anti-personnel weapons werebeing used, when actually theywere being used; the claim of AttorneyGeneral Ramsay Clark thatthe March on Washington had beendirected from Hanoi and the subsequentadmissions that the JusticeDepartment had no evidenceto prove this; the administration'sclaim that American escalationoccurred only after a build-up ofNorth Vietnamese troops in SouthVietnam; and the revelation thatthere had been only 400 NorthVietnamese troops in the Southwhen escalation occurred."We must seek the underlyingcauses," said Coursen, "We haveto realize why more Vietnams areinevitable. We keep telling ourselveswe are peace-loving whenwe aren't, and that we have humanity'sinterests at heart whenwe don't. Not only is the war leadingus on a collision course withChina and Russia, but it is compromisingour humanitarian programs.The third world war isgrowing and must be atended to,"he said. "The poor nations won'tgo away; they will become morerebellious. Our problem is that weattempt military solutions to allour problems instead of economicand diplomatic."Called For DiscussionsCoursen wrote to state chairmanof the Democratic Party GeorgeMitchell asking for a series of discussionson the candidacy of Johnson.Mitchell refuses, Coursen believes,because it would be givingthe Dissenting Democrats officialrecognition, and because it wouldforce Mitchell to defend Johnson.Said Coursen, "What sane Democratwould want to defend Johnson.Just read his speeches andcompare them to what has reallyhappened."However, Mitchell has invitedCoursen to participate in the formationof the state party platform,which has a national affairsplank. Coursen accepted the invitation,though he does have reservationsabout the usefulness ofthe platform. "I'm suspicious ofplatforms. They may be pigeonholesfor noble sentiments thatnever get expressed in action."Coursen was pleased that DavidGraham would be running for electionto the House of Representativesfrom Maine's First District.He said the peace candidate in1966 lacked the dynamism thatGraham has and that the war wasnot the issue it now is. Coursenurged that students take an interestin state politics becausethey will learn a great deal aboutpolitics and also because the warin Vietnam is an issue of greatimport to college students. Heconcluded, "If my generation hadbecome more involved there mightnot be such a leadership vacuum."
