@TITLE=BLIGHTED SOUTHEAST ASIA, SERIOUS DILEMMA, CAN CATCH WEST ECONOMICALLY IN A CENTURY
@BODY=Professor George Wilson, Chairman
of the Economics Department
at Indiana University, sees
many ways to study and scrutinize the economic conditions of Southeast Asia. Using a comparative study method, Professor Wilson has illustrated the conditions 
of this area in comparison withthe economic model of the Westin the late 1700's.In a lecture this past Tuesdayafternoon at the Senior Center,he noted that the temperate zonesof the western world provided aclimate which contributed to industrializationand economic development.In the hot humid rainforest of Southeast Asia — wheretemperatures tower over the hundreddegree mark, there is lessimpetus to rapid economic development.While Dr. Wilson considersclimate a factor in thearea, he does not adhere to climaticaldeterminism.Limited ResourcesMinerally deprived and lackingin other resources, this region asa whole has little chance for capitalformation. However, an adequatestandard of living is notimpossible, for innovations in agriculturecan create adequate foodsurplus to make the nations comfortable,progressive, agariancommunities. Professor Wilsondoes not feel that industrializationis the economic solution to all developing nations. Dr. Wilson furtherpointed out that the West andthe United States in particularhad the resources even in the1700's to lead the economic world.Trade Not AdequateThe West, aided by surgingtrade in the initial stages of industrializationwas able to formcapital by exporting; in Asia,however, trade has not grownbut has dwindled in recent yearsbecause of the impact of American substitutes on the world markets.Millions Of PeopleThe problem facing over eighthundred million Southeast Asiansincludes the population dilemma;where improved health conditionshave brought a decline in thedeath rate and an increase inthose who must live under staticor declining standards of living.Though population tends to outstrip,economic development, foreignaid could greatly help to offsetthis situation until the regionreaches its economic take-offpoint. At present the aid to theregion as a whole has declined.Dr. Wilson attributes this situationto the U.S. involvement inVietnam and Soviet complacency.Gap WidensThe gap between the West andthe developing nations is widening.As an example Dr. Wilson pointedout the United States Gross NationalProduct grows each yearby more than India's total GNP.The solution to the economicproblems of the area as proposedby Professor Wilson is increasedforeign aid. He also believes thatwith this aid the nations of SoutheastAsia may be able to catchup with the West in a century.
