@TITLE=POLICY CLARIFICATION REQUESTED
@BODY=To the Editor:
In response to repeated charges that the United
States is bombing "non-military" targets
(schools, hospitals, etc) in. North Vietnam, the
Pentagon has asserted that we bomb "only military
targets."
Some confusion may exist, however, on what"
constitutes a' military target. According to the
official Air Force Manual Fundamentals of Aerospace
Weapons Systems "A military target is any
person, thing, idea, entity, or location selected
for destruction, inactivation, or rendering non-usable
with weapons which will reduce or destroy
the will or ability of the enemy to resist."
The Manual lists four levels of target priority:
Military Structure, Economic Structure, Political^
Structure, and Psychosocial Structure. Under
the latter category, it says "Some of the conventional
targets for morale attacks have been
water ' supplies, food supplies, housing areas,
transportation centers, and industrial sites. The
objectives of these attacks in the past have been
to dispel the people's belief in the invincibility of
their forces, to create unrest, to reduce the output
of the labor force, to cause strikes, sabotage,
riots, fear, panic, hunger, and passive resistance
to the government, and to create a general
feeling that the war should be terminated." The
rhetoric of the Manual sounds very much like the
rhetoric with which the Pentagon has defended
the bombings.
The only Americans who claim that we areconsistently hitting so-called "morale" targetsare those correspondents who, like Salisburyand Schoenbrun, have actually visited NorthVietnam. President Johnson assured us earlierthis year that we bomb only "concrete and steel."Subsequent to his reassurance, however, the Pentagonwas forced to admit that we were employingCluster Bomb Units in North Vietnam.The only target against which the CUB is effectiveis a human being. Caught in a lie, the Pentagonsaid lamely that the CUB constituted onlyfive to ten per cent of the number of bombs usedin the North. In other words, the President's assertionhad been only five to ten per cent false.The anti-personnel lie is not the only evasionin which 1 our government has been trapped inrecent years. In 1965, the State Department wasforced to admit what Dean Rusk had steadfastlydenied, — that, Hanoi had agreed to preliminarypeace talks and that we had rejected them. Whenpressed, the Pentagon admitted that the AirForce was engaged in an extensive crop destructionprogram in South Vietnam. Recently, theState Department conceded that crucial sectionsof the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution of 1964 had beenwritten before the Gulf of Tonkin incident occurred.It is time that the American people got astraight answer to the question of what constitutesa military target in North Vietnam.Herbert R. Coursen, Jr.Department of English

