@TITLE=VICE PRESIDENTS WITNESS PAGEANTRY OF NERO IN VIETNAM
@BODY=(Mr. Tran, who recently spoke at the Senior Center,appears courtesy of Collegiate Press Service)WASHINGTON (CPS) - In May 1961, Vice PresidentL. B. Johnson on a visit to South Vietnamhailed President Ngo Dinh Diem as "the WinstonChurchill of South East Asia" at a state reception.His remark made practically all Vietnamese presentat the party laugh. I was there at the time anda friend of mine, a high official in the government,showed his disgust so openly that he was asked bya security officer to leave the room.President Diem was dead in November 1963 andfrom his ashes rose another dictatorship, more brutaland more vicious and more strongly backed byits patron: the U.S. In November 1967, Vice PresidentHubert Humphrey, the great American liberalpopulist, was sent to Saigon by President L. B. Johnsonto christen the birth of "democracy" and witness"nation-building."The pageantry was reminiscent of the Nero daysof Rome. The U.S. Vice President drank champagne,charmed Vietnamese women, sang with Vietnamese"revolutionary development cadres" whom hethought could be models to solve the problem of theghettos back home. Amidst the glittering crowd ofSaigon's ruling "elite" and despite the Viet Congshells in the front lawn of South Vietnam "IndependencePalace," the Vice President, by all accounts,truly enjoyed the final act of South Vietnam tragicomedy.He had no idea that for his visit, for his security,the Saigon police had earlier arrested scores of students,surrounded the headquarters of the Buddhist"Vien Hoa Dao" (Institute for Secular Affairs) andthat when he was toasting General Thieu and AirVice Marshal Ky, a few blocks from the Palace, thepolice shot and killed a 73-year-old man. He was suspectedas being the accomplice of the Vietcong whodared to disturb the pomp and spoil the festivitywith their mortars.He did not know and does not want to know perhapsthat the September 3 "elections" has inauguratedin South Vietnam a new era of "legitimized"dictatorship which affects the lives of all peopleliving in the cities.The following letter written by Dr. Au TruongThanh to an American citizen, Miss Linda Edelsteinof Nashua, New Hampshire, is the testimony to it.Miss Edelstein is one of those Americans who stillhas a heart to be concerned about a fellow humanbeing in distress. The case of Dr. Au Truong Thanhwho was banned from the September presidentialrace was known and his letter is typical of thosemessages one receives from Haiti and from anycountry ruled by a dictatorial regime.Below is the letter, which is self explanatory."Dear Miss Edelstein,"I receive today your very kind letter dated Oct.3 and I am quite surprised your letter passedthrough the screening of the censorship installed atthe post office. Since my arrest, I have not receivedany correspondence from abroad. All the letters andcables have been certainly diverted to the Policeheadquarters.To give you a concrete example of the practicenow in FORCE HERE, in defiance of the stipulations ofthe Constitution, I'll cite the case of your own cable;On Sept. 22 you sent me a cable reproducing thetext of a cable you had sent to the US EmbassySaigon. The cable has been delivered only one weekafter. Meanwhile, a Saigon newspaper, subsided bythe Administration, printed the text of your cablebefore it could reach the addressee. What does itmean? It means that the cable has been stopped bythe Police at the Post-Office, then sent to the PoliceHeadquarters for classification, investigation, thencommunicated to the newspaper to serve as a factfor a demonstration of the interference of US Governmentin Vietnamese internal affairs! Privacy ofpersonal correspondence, freedom, here are onlywords without any significance.Due to the above practice, we have encounteredmany difficulties for maintaining regular contactswith our foreign correspondents and very often weare considered as ill-breeding people because we donot acknowledge letters sent to us but that we neverreceived.I think it might be useful at this point to tell youthat I have sent you on Sept. 12 a letter with enclosures,on Sept. 18 a cable, and on Sept. 28 a cable.We, presently, are safe and unharmed. What is reservedfor to-morrow? We are living in anxiety andfear that any car which stops by our entrance gatewould be a police car bringing police forces to makeanother attempt to arrest me once more. As I wroteyou, working for peace is still dangerous" in a countryat war for more, than twenty years. And I amjoining you to pray for a return of peace in Vietnam."