@TITLE=CHALLENGES COURSEN, HOLMES
@BODY=To the Editor:There appeared recently, in the Oct. 29 edition ofthe New York Times and in the Nov. 3 edition ofTime Magazine respectively, letters from ProfessorEmeritus Holmes and Professor Coursen, both ofBowdoin College. The distinguished professors obviouslyhave very little doubt as to what they thinkwe should do in Vietnam. I think that several pointsof information are in order.1. Mr. Coursen seems to think that President Johnsonshould change his policy in Vietnam because ofthe well-publicized (especially in the Orient) antiwarprotests. What he ignores is the fact that for everymassive antiwar demonstration there has been ademonstration of comparable size in support of ourcause, with participants from only a small sectionof the country. Thus, the United States policy inVietnam has more supporters than Mr. Coursenseems to believe.2. Mr. Coursen also says that the war is "compromisingall positive humanitarian ventures, bothdomestic and international, and . . . may cancel thevery future of man himself." If by "all positive(etc.)," he means government spending, I agree thatthe war is hindering such ventures. However, I failto see how government spending (which implies inflationand/or high taxes) can be considered humanitarian.Truly humanitarian ventures cannot beinitiated by. the government — they must come fromthe individual. The fear of a nuclear war, which apparentlyplagues Mr. Coursen, seems ridiculous tome. As Everett Dirksen said of the Russians (quotedin Time, Oct. 13) "They know that nobody ever wonan earthquake."3. Mr. Holmes says: "President Eisenhower estimatedthat if elections had been held in 1956 (theemphasis is mine) . . . the vote would have gone80 percent for ... Ho Chi Minn." The actual wordsof Eisenhower were: "Had election been held at thetime of the fighting (i.e., 1954 or earlier) possibly 80percent of the population Would have voted for theCommunist Ho Chi Minn rather than Chief of StateBao Dai." The words which I have emphasized arealways left out by opponents of the Vietnam policy.When these words are reinserted, the hypotheticalelection is at least two years earlier and against achief of state whom the people hated. Just aboutanybody (including, of course, Ho Chi Minn) couldhave gotten 80 percent of the vote against Bao Dai.4. Mr. Holmes refers to the election in Vietnamas "rigged." My question is: who did the rigging?The New York Times on Oct. 3 says: "Discardingthe votes from suspect precincts . . . increasedrather than decreased Thieu's lead over his nearestrival. ..." The increase was a substantial one, from832,411 to 988,081. Certainly this does not seem tosuggest foul play by Thdeu.Mr. Holmes and Mr. Coursen are both expertsin their respective fields I am sure. However, thereis a question in my mind as to Whether they havenot been relying too greatly on the opinions ofothers and on pure hearsay (witness the inaccuraterendition by Mr. Holmes of Eisenhower's statement)in forming their own opinions on Vietnam. Perhapsthose who wish to make statements on Vietnamshould first make sure that they have ail the informationthey need rather than just that information(or misinformation) which supports only one side ofthe issue.J. Michael Brewer 71
