@TITLE=CITY SURVIVAL AND RENEWAL LINKED WITH FEDERAL AID AND COMMUNITY EFFORT
@BODY="The city is facing its mostcrucial period in history. It hasa new enemy: poverty." MayorJoseph Doorley of Providence,R. I. argued here Nov. 12 thatthe leaders of cities must provideideas, and the Federal governmentmoney, if the city isto survive.According to Doorley, thegap between poverty and thegood life is greater than ever,but there is talk of cut-backand elimination of sorely neededprograms. Doorley was aleader among the group of 100mayors who recently expressedto Congress their disapproval ofproposed cut-backs in the waron poverty. "Coordinated programsusing the resources of alllevels of government are necessary.Every city is going tobe running into these problems,but cities cannot tax their inhabitantsmuch more than theyare now. We need aid fromthe state and national government."Mayor Assumes Major Role Smaller cities can serve aslaboratories for experimentation:They have the same problemsas the major cities, butare more pliable and manageable.Doorley believes the taskof organizing programs and securingfunds rests with themayor. He must be sure thatall programs are working andcorrect those that aren't. Hemust make use of all availablefunds, and design programs tomeet the requirements of newgrants. He must defend whathe believes are necessary programs,and not expect full supportfrom the community, becausemost opposition is sheerreaction to any sort of change.In Doorley's opinion the daysof massive projects of demolitionare past. "The uprootingof 2,000 families is very destructive.It takes people out of oldneighborhoods, away fromchurches and friends. In addition,many homeowners cannotfind comparable residences aftertheir houses are destroyed.You can demolish only whenyou are certain better housingis available." Providence is currentlydeveloping small projectswhich offer low cost housing invarious parts of the city insteadof concentrating the poorin ghettos."The problem with urban renewalis that the planners donot consult the people involved,and they resent this. We'vebeen going out and talking toall sorts of people and communitygroups. So far we'vehad about forty-five meetings inall sorts of places," said Doorley.He thinks it is essential toconsult the people about everychange and give them ampleopportunity to present theirown ideas.Suburban Trends ChangeDoorley also foresees a newrelation between suburbs andcities. The increasing cost ofservices is going to force suburbsto raise taxes or begin toconsolidate with cities. However,he feels that suburbs donot generally have a broadenough tax base to make thecontinued maintenance of high qualityservices and educationpossible. Doorley also describeda new trend of movement backfrom suburbs into the city."People are tired of cutting thegrass and keeping two cars," hesaid. "They want to move backinto the city where the actionis."Doorley defended Providence'sprogram of busing <o eliminatede facto segregation. "De factosegregation results in bad education,and we will continue tobus students until we feel it isno. longer productive." InProvidence, students from onepredominantly Negro school aref bused to various schools in thecity. He claims that parentswould remove their childrenfrom schools if white studentswere bussed into the ghetto.Mayor Doorley stated thatboth the war in Vietnam andthe war on poverty can be carriedon if cuts are made inother parts of the budget. The$2 billion for the war on povertyamounts to 1 1/2 fromthe tax dollar, and\vill savemillions of dollars in preventingdestruction, and help thousandsof people.
