@TITLE=TRAN VAN DINH CLAIMS UNITED STATES IS SUPPRESSING REVOLUTION
@BODY=Shedding still a new light on thepossible paths to ending the warin Vietnam is Vietnamese journalistand former diplomat, TranVan Dinh. In la lecture to the Collegecommunity Wednesday evening,Mr. Dinh offered a thirdway in Vietnam; withdrawal ofthe third party, the U.S. — eventuallyleading to a political reconciliationof the war-torn country.Rules Out Two Other WaysMr. Dinh ruled out two otherpossible ways, those being theAmerican or military way, andthe other the surrender of theU.S. The first, in his opinioncould only lead to world destructionthrough the intervention ofChina land the second as simplyinfeasible since the psychological
effect on this "American obsession"would be too great. He emphasizedthese points by expressinghis opinion that the war hasbecome too great an Americanpolitical issue to allow for U.S.surrender. In explaining McNamara's"being fired," Mr. Dinhrelated this to a political issue,claiming that "Johnson thoughtMcNamara would be a hindrancefor him in 1968."Possibility of UnificationIn the question period that followed,the possibility of unificationwas repeatedly stressed. Mr. Dinhstated that before unity, theremust be withdrawal of all foreignbelligerents, which in turn wouldlead to the unification of the country.A new social justice systemand elections conducted by aninterim government would helpimplement this new policy ofunity.U.S. Involvement ImmoralAnother point of view on the warexpressed by Mr. Dinh was theimmorality of the war in Vietnameseterms. In Mr. Dinh's opinion,U.S. involvement in Vietnamis immoral because it is an attemptto stop a legitimate revolution.Anyone who is adverse tochange in a country is immoral.
the Johnsons House at 256 MaineSt.In recognition of his communityand professional leadership, Bowdoinhonored Dr. Haskell in 1946with an honorary Doctor of Sciencedegree. A native of Turner,Maine, and graduate of the PhiladelphiaDental School, now TempleUniversity, Dr. Haskell served asPresident of the Maine DentalSociety in 1891 and was a Fellowof the American College of Dentists.Dr. Haskell's 67 years of serviceto has patients from his officein the Town Building is oneof the longest tenures of the practiceof dentistry in the country.The Haskell house, consideredone of Brunswick's finest oldhomes, is sometimes referred toas Maine's first hospital. Dr.Nathan Smith, who founded theold Medical School of Maine atBowdoin in 1821, lived in the houseduring his tenure at the Schooland brought to his home for convalescencehis surgical patientsfrom throughout the state.

