@TITLE=War Claims Life Of Bowdoin Man; Services Here
@BODY=Bowdoin paid tribute Wednesdayto a member of its Class of1963 who died Sept. 27 as resultof wounds suffered in combat inVietnam.
Acting President Athern P.Daggett conducted a service inthe Chapel in memory of Marine2nd Lt. Allen R. Loane, who wasseriously wounded on Labor Daywhile serving with the Fifth Marines.He died three and a halfweeks later of spinal meningitisat the Naval Hospital in DaNang, South Vietnam.
"Just as much as those atValley Forge or Gettysburg, or atOmaha Beach, he gave his lifethat this Nation might live,"Professor Daggett told undergraduatesand faculty members."Here, thousands of miles fromhis battlefield, we are all in hisdebt."
He is the second Bowdoin mankilled in the fighting in Vietnam.Army 1st Lt. Curtis E. Chase of
Hingham, Mass., a member ofBowdoin's Class of 1965, wasfatally injured on May 6 of thisyear.
A native of Boston, Lt. Loanewas the son of Mr. and Mrs. J.Bruce Loane of Natick, Mass. Hewas a leading scorer and playmakerduring his senior year onBowdoin's first Maine StateSeries championship basketballteam and was named to the All-Maine team that season and wonhonorable mention on the AssociatedPress and United PressInternational All-New Englandteams.
He scored 236 points for Bowdoinin the 1961-62 season and200 points in 1962-63. His coach,Ray Bicknell, said of him at thattime, "Al is as good a small manas I've ever had the privilege ofcoaching. He drives and shootswell, but his passing is exceptional."

Lt. Loane entered Bowdoin as
the recipient of an Alumni FundScholarship. He worked in thekitchen and was later Steward atSigma Nu Fraternity house andalso sold basketball and hockey
programs to help with his educational expenses. He was a Historymajor.

He served as Vice President ofSigma Nu, wrote for the "BowdoinOrient," and was a memberof the varsity basketball team forthree years.

Following his graduation fromBowdoin, he was a member of theadvertising and editorial staff ofthe Natick Suburban Press andRecorder. He also took an activepart in Republican Party affairsin the Natick area. In, Decemberof 1966 he completed the MarineOfficer Candidate School atQuantico, Va., and was commissioneda Second Lieutenant. InJune of this year he was sent toVietnam, where he served as aplatoon leader with the FirstBattalion of the Fifth Marines.