@TITLE=Political Program Revealed to American Delegates at Recent Czech Convention
@BODY=BRATISLAVA, Czechoslovakia (CPS) — Perhapsthe major event of this meeting betweenVietnamese and Americans was the release ofthe first NLF political program since 1960, printedin English and distributed to the Americandelegates.The document invites all forces, Communistand non-Communist, to join the NLF's nationalistrevolution, protects "the right of ownershipof the means of production and other propertyof the citizens"; encourages "the capitalists inindustry and trade to help develop industry,small industries, and handicrafts"; respects "thelegitimate right to ownership of land by thechurches, pagodas, and holy seas of religioussects"; promises free general elections towardeventual reunification of both Vietnams, "in accordancewith the principle of universal, equal,direct suffrage"; and bars military alliances withall other nations'."You will notice that there is nothing herewhich mentions socialism," said Mrs. Nguyen ThiBinh, the 50-year-old foreign secretary for theNLF, who also headed the Southern delegation.Mrs. Binh added that the NLF's program insistson five points: peace, neutrality, democracy, independence,and eventual national reunification.Program Appears Pro-CapitalistMost Americans were surprised at the wordingof the NLF program, which seems much too procapitalistin its outlook; however, the program*may be a transitional step toward a socialisteconomy for South Vietnam, dependent on theoutcome of a democratic election.Therefore, the NLF is confident of its ability tomaintain the widespread support which it nowenjoys, and seems entirely honest in its insistencethat the people of Vietnam be given, at last, theopportunity to decide for themselves which formof government they will have. The current program,with its assurances of private propertyrights, may be a compromise with the many nonsocialistelements active in the body and leadershipof the Front, but the ultimate programwould be dictated by the populace as far aspossible.Even among Thieu and Ky's top military officers,the NLF maintains secret sympathizers,Mrs. Binh added. The Front includes at leastthree major political parties (Democratic, RadicalSocialist, and Peoples' Revolutionary), fourmajor religions, and many ethnic groups.NLF Control In CountrysideAccording to Southern journalist Huynh VanLy, from Ben Tre, the NLF is now in control ofover 80 per cent of the Southern countryside —excluding the major cities of Saigon, Danang,and Hue, which are governed with varying degreesof stability by the "puppet government"sanctioned by the USMaps and films were presented showing lifein these liberated zones, which Mr. Ly maintainedinclude 3.5 million hectares of land, overtwo million of it privately owned by peasants,producing enough rice for the fighting troopswithout the major rice-import problem of theSouthern government.(Saigon is expected to import a million tons ofrice this year,, and reports from Boston UniversityNEWS correspondent Alex Jack in" Saigonsaid that nightclubs there had taken to a versionof "Greenfields" which reads, "Once there werericefields ... now there are none.")Obviously, the necessary functions of societycontinue, with difficulty, in spite of the bombing;otherwise the Vietnamese would have had to givein long ago. But despite bombing heavier to datethan the total bombing in the European and AfricanTheaters of the Second World War, NguyenMinh Vy of North Vietnam documented that eventhe cultural life continues. He showed films ofdances and theatre performances. School enrollmentis up 130 per cent this year. Newspapers,magazines, even art books, continue to be published.Vy's explanation for this phenomenon is asfollows:Industry, and now schools, are scattered insmall centers in the countryside, he said, addingthat an urban economy could not have withstoodthe bombing so long as the North has. "Whenthe radio says the U.S. has destroyed a factory,we assure you it was only four walls in the firstplace. Where they say they destroyed an armybarracks, it was only a building."North Vietnam's Plan For PeaceNorth Vietnam's four-point program for peaceremains as before. Tran Con Tuong, a Hanoilawyer, reiterated the stand: (1) The U.S. mustput an end to aggression against the North (atwhich point negotiations could begin immediately).(2) Strict attention must be paid to theGeneva accords. (3) A solution to the problemsof South Vietnam must come from the SouthVietnamese themselves. (4) The two Vietnamsmust be allowed to achieve peaceful reunificationbetween themselves."Our people are determined not to submit toforce, not to talk to the U.S. imperialists underthe threat of (resumed) bombing," Tuong emphasized;Hanoi "has reason to escalate the war"(as Washington has charged); its stand is "inthe interests of the American people as well,"Tuong stated.The North is now receiving limited aid incans took to bowing, using protocol titles, askingothers to step ahead before them, and singing uninhibitedly.A Vietnamese interpreter who hadbecome a friend bypassed the accustomed statementof Brotherhood to say, "So long, baby, It'sbeen a gas."heavy from the Soviet Union, but nothingfrom China, delegates said in small groupsessions. Much of the DRV's weaponry is smallartillery, and both infantry weapons and largerarms are frequently salvaged from captured U.S.supplies or downed aircraft.During the conference, word" came that Secretaryof Defense McNamara had announced inWashington that the DRV is receiving up to $1billion annually from the USSR; he did not saythat the U.S. is subsidizing the Saigon governmentby some $26 billion this year.Challenge To Mendel RiversPerhaps the North's resolve was best demonstratedby the Hanoi lawyer who shared a jokewith us at the expense of House Armed ServicesCommittee Chairman Mendel Rivers. "Please askMr. Rivers to come to Hanoi," he said, "and seefor himself if we've been 'bombed back to thestone age,' as he advocates. We're not in thestone age, and we can't be bombed there."The Vietnamese position as a. colonized people,however, did not escape the attention of SNCC'sJohn Wilson, who was most warmly received ofall the Americans reporting in Bratislava ontheir movements. "We are-a' colonized peopletwo," Wilson said of American blacks. We knowthat power comeS-from the barrel of a gun.?"U.S. imperialism extends from South Vietnam toSouth Africa to South Carolina, U.S.A. Todestroy that imperialism, by any means necessary. . . you cannot organize or domesticate amad dog — you dispose of it."Wilson divided black America in four categories— integrationists, separatists, ethnic politicians,and black militants. He excoriated WhitneyYoung of the Urban League for being "usedby the U.S. to legitimize the recent (Saigon),elections in the eyes of black people, and saidthe integrationists, including Martin Luther Kingand Roy Wilkins, have been "leading black peopleto the slaughter." He was debated briefly byStoney Cooks of Dr. King's Southern ChristianLeadership Conference, who said the militants'program was poorly organized and without hopesof success.The cultural differences between Vietnameseand Americans were not so marked, however, asto obscure the obvious cultural inseminationwhich each side was experiencing.
