@TITLE=Naval Station Head Clashes With BHS
@BODY=Free speech: that's why Mario Savio caused sucha ruckus at Berkeley, why Daniel and Sinyavsky arein prison in the Soviet Union, and why the Rev.Henry L. Bird almost didn't speak at BrunswickHigh School.The commanding officer of Brunswick Naval AirStation objected to BHS student invitation to Rev.Bird to present his views on Vietnam in an assembly.Capt. Charles Wyman, having heard that the assistantpastor of St. Paul's Episcopal Church was "aradical and rabble rouser," telephoned school superintendentMario Tonon and complained that such aspeaker should not be allowed to speak to the students.Tonon Cancels TalkTonon called BHS principal Jess DeLois, who inturn called student council president Andrew Geoghegan and asked him to withdraw the invitation toRev. Bird. This chain of command led Geogheganto comment "it's kind of too bad, but you have torealize these school administrators are responsibleto the citizens and taxpayers of Brunswick and mustbe responsive to the voice of the people."Whether Geoghegan was attempting irony in hiscomment is not clear, but the certain irony lies inthe views of Rev. Bird. While Capt. Wyman basedhis concern on complaints "from other people on thebase," acquaintances characterize the minister'sopinions as moderate. He questions the credibility of
Administration statements and the sincerity of peaceefforts accompanied by military escalation, but heis not considered a radical.Rev. Bird was originally invited after KennethWheeler, obtained from a speakers bureau, hadgiven a required assembly during which he supportedcurrent policy in Vietnam and painted alldissenters as "pinkoes, Reds, and Commies."However, Tonon's succumbing to military pressurewas not accepted by school committee officials.A first reaction was to invite John N. Cole, editorof the Bath-Brunswick Times-Record, as a replacementspeaker. Those who know Cole thought that hisviews would probably be more radical than those ofBird. But further discussion resulted in a decisionon November 30 to allow Bird to speak."Right Patriotic Slant"During the furor raised in Brunswick while thedecision was being resolved, Wyman told reporters"we have to get somebody up there with the rightpatriotic slant."1,400 students out of 1,600 showed up for the now controversiailvoluntary assembly. (The alternativewas a study hall). Bird concentrated on thethought that meeting human needs in Asia wouldprevent the spread of Communism. He criticizeddraft-dodging and said that leaving the country toescape the draft was avoiding the responsibility toexpress dissent.
The assembly was punctuated by an exchange1between the Princeton graduate and a student whocharged that Bird "did not care.""I think they (soldiers in Vietnam) do care," saidthe student."Would you die for that flag?" continued the student."Yes, I would." replied Bird.The student said, "I'm leaving," and made hisway out of the crowded gymnasium.Response against WymanWyman's heavy-handed attempt at molding studentopinion and Tonon's ready acquiescence to theCaptain's objections charged more controversy intoBird's talk then had it not been interfered with,(Tonon, a Bowdoin alumnus* reportedly once suspendeda student for writing an essay on why social-Ism the best form of government) while responsein letters to Times-Record all strongly castigatedthe almost-successful stifling of free speech atBrunswick High School. A letter from a group ofstudents asserted their right to "listen to whomever(they) desire.""How can we be tomorrow's leaders if we arekept in the dark today?"Let's hope today's leaders are more in tune withBrunswick High School students than BrunswickNaval Air Station Commanders.
