@TITLE=How to Win a war: Level the cities a few at a time and poison the soil 
@BODY=Writhing in dismay at civilianauthority, a British military manonce said, "Every fool has felt inhis heart that he could commanda regiment." Where the complexitiesof naval and air technologyawe the armchair general, the apparentsimplicity of land warfareinvites everyone to dispense advicefreely. We hear these pearlsdropping all about us. Some willcleave to the Give-'Em-Hell-and-Get-Out, others to the Pull-Back-to-the-Coast, or Invade-the-North,or Cease-Fire-and-Negotiate. Evenpeople agreed on the question ofAmerican involvement, one wayor another, squabble endlesslyover their favorite theories.Let us assume, for the durationof this discussion, that we arestuck with this war in Vietnam,that a political settlement must bemade to save the national face.The question is purely, what approachcan most effectively bringabout a settlement? Which leadsus to consider the more specificissues involved: (1) perceiving thecrucial point at which a nationwill seek terms, and (2) selectingthe weapon or combination of weaponsbest suited to attain thatgoal.Policy Has Little ChanceCurrently, our strategy is aimedat the destruction of the VC andPAVN forces operating in SouthVietnam, with their major supportfacilities in North Vietnam. Infact, this policy has little chanceof success, either in its immediateobjective or in the long-range objectiveof affording continuing security.The destruction of armedforces, especially in Vietnam, neednot significantly affect the will ofthe enemy to resist. General D.O. Smith, USAF, said, "It is notso much the existence of a militaryestablishment that determinesa people's will to resist as it istheir confidence in it. If they areled to believe that no personal orcollective protection is possiblefrom their armed forces, their defeatcan be possible without furtherconflict, as witness the collapseof Japan while still armedwith effective ground forces numberingover three million." It isnot, therefore, strictly necessaryto counter enemy ground thrustsin kind. Yet this is how we arewaging war in Vietnam.The barren yield of this strategyof ground response is manifest inthe reports of visitors to NorthVietnam. Life there goes on. Thepeople are told that 100,000 Yankeeshave been slain, that thousandsof Yankee planes have fallento earth. The people seem to feelno personal threat, no despair;they retain confidence in theirarmed forces. So resistance remainsdefiantly steadfast, whileAmerica appears daily more ineffectual.Fight Solely From AirNazi Germany would surrenderedbefore 1945, experts willsay, had the crippling Allied airstrikesbeen multiplied and thelanding of ground troops never .done. Winning territory will notwin a war except as it removesvital sustaining resources fromenemy control; but air power cando the same thing at far greatereconomy. Ground forces, thoughshredded and slashed, can fighton as long as supply lasts. But ifthe will and ability of the homelandto continue providing suppliesare broken, fighting must stop.The direction in which this leadsus is clear: carry the fight to theenemy solely from the air, leavingus with unchallenged superiority,and denying him the chance oftactical victories on the ground.A program for ending the warin a hurry suggests that holdingsin the South be consolidated, withmajor offensive action undertakenonly insofar as it might assist thebombing. As for the bombing,which includes aircraft, rockets,naval gunnery, and artillery, itshould be directed against the nation.The cities of the North shouldbe leveled, a few at a time, inblanket bombing. The tilled areasof the country should be poisonedfrom the air." Unrestricted warfareagainst ships attempting tosupply the North should be imposedposed (no, the Russians won't cuttheir throats for Ho Chi Minn).With no supply, no industry, nofood, North Vietnam would be outof the war, and with it the effectivenessof the units in the South.What are the advantages of thisstrategy? Chiefly, it renders thegovernment powerless to continueresistance by making the cost unsupportable,and minimizes thecost to the United States. But itis important to note that once theenemy realized the intent of thenew strategy, he would seek termsbefore destruction became total,assuming the United States appeareddetermined to continue. Itis not inconceivable that, to allconcerned, this approach wouldsave most lives in the long run.And if the civilian warriors of theDepartment of Defense ever takean honest look at the situation,we shall see this demonstrated.