@TITLE=What, Do You Think? 
@BODY=I have no desire to write aboutthe earth-shattering events thatform the boundary of Bowdoinlife. I really couldn't care lessabout fraternity rushing or thetribulations of orientation. Theseare decisions that will be madeby committees, for better orworse, and there will be more ofthe stuff that wasted breath ismade of. So, read the editorialsor the Circular File for news inthat field. This column may wellcease to exist because I have mydoubts as to whether people areinterested in anything that hassome long range ramifications.For example, the right to dissent.Unless you are deaf and dumb,you may be aware that there hasbeen a great deal of debate, aboutthe Vietnam question. I would liketo point out an interesting fact inthis connection. At each demonstration,someone (what governmentagency) is taking photographsof the demonstrators. Obviously,these photos could be enlargedand the protestors easilyidentified. What about individualswho are publicly going on recordagainst government policy? Thesepeople are placing themselves indanger of being prosecuted andpersecuted by some idiot in theHouse Un-American Affairs Committeewho has the mind of adead zebra. No, I am not advocatinga "shut thy mouth" policy.I am merely pointing out thefact that it seems possible thatwe are in danger of creating anation of cowards — people unwillingand/or unable to opposeor even criticise government. "Mycountry right or wrong" wasgroovey in 1778 but what about1968? As has been mentioned bymen far more learned than I —America is no longer the world'sgreatest country; it is only themost powerful. So what? Whogives a damn? I mean, man, likeall you have to do is peddle insuranceor sell clothes or tool outfor someone else and don't everget involved. What the hell, aslong as YOU are getting the moneywhat do you care about anythingelse? " In this competitiveworld it is every man for himself.Get thy neighbor before he getsyou!After all, most other people livethis way so — 199 million AmericansCans can't be wrong or even misguided.It is a really convenientway to live and America is a landof convenience, efficiency, andeconomics and those pinko thinkersshould get the hell out. Hear,Hear!! Don't rock the boat.If you don't like this type ofattitude, you had better do somethingabout it. Events are oftentoo easy to forget or overlook,especially if thought or action isrequired. Unless some people arewilling to push hard, we are indanger of losing the right to varyfrom a norm that may not reallybe all things to all people. So getinvolved and don't be afraid tosuffer a little. My only plea is forsensible action. There is no reasonto imprison Dow ChemicalRecruiters — they have a right
