@TITLE=ALUMNUS SUPPORTS ROTC
@BODY=To the Editor:As a 1967 Bowdoin graduate and recipient of aROTC Commission, I have been reading with increasingconcern the criticism of ROTC's role atBowdoin (specifically the November 17. Orient). Myundergraduate idealism has been replaced by graduatepragmatism as I am currently a graduate studentin public administration at the Maxwell Schoolof Syracuse University.Perhaps academic credit should be withdrawnfrom advanced ROTC. I never knew anyone whojoined ROTC for the academic credit. Most of ushad extra academic credits which could easily havebeen applied towards graduation. I am glad to seethat Bowdoin is constantly reevaluating the requirementsfor its A.B. degree.How many students come to Bowdoin for an intellectualexperience? My estimate would be 5-10% ofthe student body. The other 90-95% come for thatcomplex learning, maturing, and socializing processcalled "college." This process includes footballgames, concerts, fraternity parties, and all-nightersaround exam time. If there is ope thing that all thesestudents want to achieve it is success — especiallysuccess after graduation. Regardless of whether successmeans public service or a high salary, successmotivates most undergraduate action such as thechoice of a major field of study. Bowdoin shouldrant and rave about the quality of its liberal education,but it should not lose sight of the reason whya vast majority of its students are paying their tuitionmoney.Unfortunately for healthy male citizens of theUnited States, there is a military obligation to fulfill.Army ROTC at an institution like Bowdoin offersmore advantages in fulfilling this obligation than any.other service program that I know of. Many of myclassmates who scorned and jeered at the sight ofus in our uniforms were sorry that they hadn't enrolledin ROTC when graduation rolled around. Ifa Bowdoin student wants to commit his own timetowards fulfilling his military obligation while anundergraduate, then the College should recognize amature decision and allow him to fulfill this obligation.Much of the controversy over ROTC at Bowdoinseems to center on misconceptions and a lack of information.Would Professor Mitchell consider instructionin leadership to be one of his "courseswell-known to be of a trivial nature?" I suggestthat much of the "trivia" learned in ROTC is morevaluable than some of the "trivia" learned in theclassrooms of Bowdoin College. It is impossible tocompare instruction in military science and otheracademic instruction.Students come to Bowdoin with a twelve-year academicbackground and absolutely no training in militaryscience. Fundamentals must be taught beforecomplex applications, whether one is talking aboutmathematics or football. Disregarding a Utopian society,I am not convinced that military and intellectualvalues are contradictory. Why is the Army deferringme for graduate study? Could it be that theythink an M.P.A. would make a better officer thanan A.B.? Professor Hannaford has obviously neverattended an advanced ROTC class. We held hot debateson Vietnam and there was certainly no hesitancyin expressing displeasures over the administration'spolicy. Bowdoin is not producing "secondrate"officers. Bowdoin cadets can compete withanyone at ROTC summer camp or later on activeduty.Regardless of whether the College gives academiccredit to ROTC, I hope Bowdoin is wise enough toallow ROTC to continue to function.Bertrand N. Kendall '67
