@TITLE=United States May be a Communist police state by 1970 says John Bircher R. Martin Brooks
@BODY=Brunswick has been the sceneof John Birch Society activity forthe last two years, according toR. Martin Brooks. Brooks, who isthe new Assistant Director of theComputing Center, is the onlymember of the faculty belongingto the Society. He knows of nostudents who are members.When asked if there was somethingabout Brunswick that makesit especially desirable for a BirchSociety chapter, Mr. Brooks repliedthat it is important that theSociety be active all over thecountry, to "remind people of theheritage and principles uponwhich our country was founded."Mr. Brooks said that, as he seesit, it is the purpose of the Societyto "try to raise a standard towhich the wise and the honest canrepair," adding that "the event isin the hands of God." The"event" is whether or not theUnited States becomes a Communistpolice state.Birch Society Not Right-WingBrooks emphasized that tiheJohn Birch Society should not becondemned as right-wing, a clas-' sificaticn which he considersspecious, but that it should bejudged on its ideals. He said thatthe Society stands on the Constitutionand the Bill of Rights, andfights for "less big governmentand more citizen responsibility."Brooks' chapter is the Bath-Brunswick area, and meets at thehomes of different members aboutevery month. The Secretary ofthe chapter is Mrs. Wheeler F.Blake of Freeport. At present themain activity of members is thecirculation of a petition to Congressurging legislators " to havethis Administration stop, promptlyand completely, giving aid inany form, directly or indirectly,to our Communist enemies."The petition submits that,1. "We are at war."2. "Our enemy is the total Communistbloc of nations."3. "At least eighty percent ofthe sinews of war are beingprovided North Vietnam bySoviet Russia and its Europeansatellites,"4. "This help to North Vietnamhas been made possible almostentirely by our help tothe Soviet Union and its satellites."This petition has not been circulatedin the Bowdoin campus,and past Society activities havegenerally neglected the campusbecause no interest has been apparent.However, Brooks said thatany students who are interestedin Society activities or wish tomake further inquiry may contacthim or Mrs. Doris Pierce, ofSpring Street in Brunswick."People Are Sympathetic"Mr. Brooks said he finds that"a lot of people are sympathetic"to John Birch Society ideals, andwould like to express themselves,but "many are afraid to committhemselves." Mr. Brooks statedthat he is under considerablepressure himself, because of"deeply rooted opposition to theSociety in this community." As aresult of these pressures " to keepquiet," Brooks, who was apparentlythe spark plug for the recentpetition campaign and is a veryinterested and committed member,has been forced not to "go out andsee people," and is limited to
conversations in private. He is beingvery careful because he wantsto make Brunswick his permanenthome.According to Brooks, the Communistsin America received in1961 a directive from their superiorsabroad ordering them tosilence the John Birch Society.Their efforts failed, and in 1966,notes the computer expert, an alloutcampaign against the Societywas instituted which is still in effecttoday.As for his personal fears, . Mr.Brooks concluded with the opinionthat- "unless we get enoughgood anti-Communists in government,"there will be little chanceof escaping from an "impendingCommunist police state" before1970.