@TITLE=NLF PROGRAM ENCOURAGES CAPITALISTS SAY AMERICANS IN BRATISLAVA
@BODY=Editor's Note: Ray Mungo, former editor ofthe Boston University News, participated in ameeting of a group of Americans with NorthVietnamese^and members of the National LiberationFront Toften called the Viet Cong). This isthe first of two articles reporting on that meeting.by Raymond MungoCollegiate Press ServiceBRATISLAVA, Czechoslovakia (CPS) — "LyndonJohnson will have a nightmare when hehears about this meeting," said Tom Hayden to40 Americans and an equal number of NorthVietnamese and members of the National LiberationFront (NLF)."He will have a nightmare because he has sent500,000 men to your land to fight the Vietcong,"added Hayden, a former leader of Students fora Democratic Society (SDS). "We will tell himhe'd better leave some men at home. Because,like Spartacus, whose fellow slaves in Rome PROtected his hiding-place by each claiming to beSpartacus himself, I am the Vietcong. We areeverywhere! We are all the Vietcong!"And on that note, the first major meeting betweenAmericans and the "enemies" of theirgovernment ended on September 13 after 10days of cultural shock, political programs, andfraternal exchanges. The American delegation,led by Dave Dellinger, editor of Liberation magazine— which included blacks, community organizers,American Friends, artists, clergymen,and full-time peace movement workers — wasmoved and at times incredulous at the Vietnamesemorale and willingness to resist in face ofmonstrous military force.The Vietnamese, for their part, recognize therelative smallness of the anti-war movement butforesee its growth as the ultimate solution toU.S. intervention in their affairs."We can speak to you, dear friends, as brothers,"began Nguyen Minh Vy, chairman of theNorthern delegation, as he threw his arms aroundDellinger.Exchange Of Good WillGifts were exchanged, or, more properly, lavished,as each side delighted in pleasing theother. Books, sketches of South Vietnam producedon elaborate underground "liberationpresses," phonograph records, pins, rings madeof debris of downed U.S. planes, clothing, lettersfrom captured U.S. pilots for delivery to theirfamilies on one side; on the other, anti-war pins,books, pamphlets, and little black dolls fromFreedom House.A wizened sixtyish Vietnamese woman (whokept asking "when the women will all get together")grinned broadly, pointing to her SDSbadge. Those of us who could, spoke in French,but the Vietnamese also brought six excellent interpreters,and the Czech Peace Committee addedtwo more.Time and again the Vietnamese overcame
American embarrassment at the apparent impotenceof the conference to affect U.S. policy byinsisting they were talking to the real people ofAmerica — the blacks, the community organizers,the students, the poor. These Americans,our war torn friends said, will some day leadtheir people in peace and brotherhood with all,the world. They said they knew the strugglemay be long, but the Vietnamese will wait andwatch — they have waited thousands of yearsalready — and we must be strong and return thegood fight.La Traviata And Wounded CiviliansOne Vietnamese girl had literally 200 tinywoundsfrom American fragmentation bombswhich exploded on her elementary school whileshe was teaching a class. Another teacher diedfrom a similar bombing, her 26-year-old bodysheltering one of her students.Much singing and dancing went on nonetheless,for the Vietnamese are a cultured people,proud of their arts. A North Vietnamese friendtold me on our return, from La Traviata at theBratislava Opera House that opera goes .on inHanoi still, as well 'as dance. Astounded, I ask-.ed if the poets and writers continue to publish."Oh, yes," he laughed, "but when the bombsfall their writing tends to become a little -shall we say — insipid?" Hysterical laughter allarotlnd.The Dom Rekreachie ROH, our hotel, is normallya refuge for trade-unionists and overlooksthe Danube; beer and wine here were plentifuland superb. The Vietnamese and Americans alikewere apologetic for indulging in such unaccustomedluxury. The former, convinced that Americans"dress very well," bought expensive suitsand raincoats in Europe, were surprised that wewore dungaree jackets and tattered sandals andcomplimented our "humility as well as courage."Despite surface similarities, however, theAmericans differed from their Vietnamese brothersmost prominently in the extent to whichtheir internal squabbles persisted and long, closedmeetings were necessary.On the final day of the conference, Sol Sternof Ramparts heatedly refused to sign a statementwhich all but two others thought was relativelymild, explaining that it would implicatehim if he didn't sign it and insisted one vetoshould cancel the statement. It did, and a statementultimately went out over the signatures ofDellinger, Hayden, and Nick Egelson, the organizersof the conference.Americans Travel To HanoiAt the end, 10 Americans were selected to goto Hanoi, but others may follow later. (Thereasons for their selection were not made public.)Rightfully proud of their strength under duress,the Vietnamese were anxious that their newfriends see their homeland for themselves. Theyunderstand frustration, had no difficulty encompassingthe frustrations that Americans feel atso simple a task as ending the war, and attemptedto comfort us.We were at an understandable loss to offerthem tangible comfort, but Ross Flanagan of theQuaker Action Group persevered with small packagesof medical supplies which were seized byRoyal Canadian Mounted Police last month asthey wore being brought into Canada for shipmentto Hanoi."We Shall Brothers Be"Considering the difficult political tasks ahead,though, some comforts seemed justifiable, and soboth delegations joined in singing "We ShallOvercome" with locked arms - the first time inyears that a chorus of "We shall brothers be" hasbeen sung without embarrassment and wejoined them in a snake-dance version of theUnity Song.The final evening, a formal Czech reception atBratislava's oldest and most elegant castle turnedinto a New York-style frug, Slovak violinistsnotwithstanding, and Vietnamese brothers clappedand laughed uninhibitedly — recognizing acultural tradition when they see one — while theheads of state stood by, powerless to stop whatobviously seemed to them a desecration of socialistrealism and diplomatic protocol.
