@TITLE=Greene Proposes Geneva Conference On Vietnam War
@BODY=A man who has travelled- fivetimes to Communist China andtwice to North Vietnam since 1957to try "to make some historicalsense" about the Asian situationpresented yet another viewpointon the Vietnam war at BowdoinSunday night. Felix Greene, aBritish writer, contended that aninternational conference to arbitratethe conflict would be a possiblesolution. He suggestedthe same nations which participatedin the 1954 Geneva Conferenceon Indo-China. but under adifferent jaameGreene, whose film China! wasshown last week at the SeniorCenter, prefaced this conclusionby 'presenting observations, particularlyabout the bombing ofNorth Vietnam, which the "Americanpublic doesn't grasp." Thestatistical facts that the 90.000raids on the North Vietnam in thefirst six months of this yeardropped bombs whose tonnage exceededthat dropped in Europeand North Africa, in the entire.Second World War."Not a Building Left"Town life has ceased to exist inthe North Vietnam, Greene said"In town after town literally nota building is left standing," illustratingthe extent of this destructionwith slides he had taken.However, the North Vietnamesehave suffered relatively low casualties,owing to extensive evacuationof population centers and anefficient air raid warning system.He described how public addresssystems . would warn of the approachof American bombers andthen signal an all-clear. He alsoemphasized how some towns inthe southern part of North Vietnamhad been needlessly, in hisopinion, bombed six or eighttimes.
The author of two recent works,one on China and another a photostudy of the Vietnamese war, observedthat the continued bombingdid not appear to be bringingthe Vietnamese to surrender or aconference table. He cited a general"elan," comparable to thatfound in London during the Blitz."The English laughed at the Germanswhen they proposed peacetalks then," he said. Bridgesbombed are repaired within hoursby teams of young and enthusiasticmen and women. Thus, anygoal of destroying the will of theNorth Vietnamese to continuefighting seems to be contradictedby the high morale Greene observed.In a material sense, Greene alsoexpressed doubts that the bombingwas successful. The principle
of interdicting supply lines to theSouth is not borne out by the factthat only 100 tons of materiel, carriedin several trucks, can keepthe Communist troops in the Southequipped. This amount is impossibleto eliminate by bombing. Inthe North, the fact that the U.S.has destroyed eighty percent ofthe thermal electric generatingcapacity merely amounts to destroyinga capacity one-fifth thesize of the power plant near thePentagon in Washington and thatthe power needs of the countrycan be provided by about 2,000Diesel generators. North Vietnamis not a highly-industrializedcountry, so the bombing can accomplishlittle in this area.Applying his knowledge of Chinato the situation, Greene statedthat many aspects of Red Chinesepolicy could be illustrated by thewar. First, he said that this kindof "war of liberation," in which asmall guerilla force could tie upa large, modern armed force validatedMao Tse-Tung's thinking onrevolution and could lead theChinese to encourage this kind ofaction in other areas.The U.S. involvement with theconflict also bears out the Chinesedoctrine that a war with the Westwas inevitable and encouragetheir militarists. The commitmentalso has created a pivotal situationin Vietnam; if the Vietnamese becomeextremely hard-pressed, theChinese will come to their aid andinvolve the U.S. in a wider war.The future possibilities lookedgloomy to Greene: maintained andincreased bombing, which wouldnot bring a military solution to thewar; an invasion of the Northwhich would bring in China, justas in Korea, as U.S. forces approachedtheir border: Greeneruled any possibility of dictationdefeat to the North, and thus ledto his proposal for an internationalconference, which he felt wouldhelp regain the position of leadershipin the world for the U.S. ithas lost.
