@TITLE=A Lesson in Diplomacy: Ambassador Rosenne Speaks
@BODY=Ambassador Shabtai Roseanne, Deputy Permanent Representative of Israel to the United Nation, did not give a talk on the Middle East Situation at the Senior Center on Tuesday evening. The Ambassador, who is an expert on Mid-East affairs, did appear at the designated time on the designated evening, and he did talk for almost ninety minutes before many of his more than one hundred listeners adjourned for coffee and informal discussion. Ambassador Rosenne did not deliver a formal talk because, he said, 'a lot is known about the Middle East situation already.' He elected, rather, merely to answer questions. His purpose was less to explain his nation's views on this 'international trouble area' than to vindicate those views and the policies resulting from them. At this the Ambassador was masterful. Speaking only hours after the Arab terrorist attack of an Israeli airplane in Zurich, Switzerland, the Ambassador's responses were always lucid, thoughtful, and decidedly rational. When asked about Egyptian leader Nasser's remarks describing the 1967 June War as a 'religious war,' Ambassador Roseanne replied that it was best to 'Keep the religious issue out of the conflict as much as possible.' In order to secure peace, 'men must put their emphasis and reliance on the rational and non-emotional.' The distinguished guest, who appeared through the courtesy of the Senior Center and of Professor Leland Goodrich's Seminar on the United Nations, opened the question-answer period by reminding his audience of an essential Rule of Diplomacy: there are no indiscreet questions but there are indiscreet answers. The audience exhibited little inclination to extract unattractive answers, an Ambassador Roseanne, a superb diplomat was excellent in not giving any. The audience came to be impressed by the speaker and they were. This is nothing new. Ambassador Rosenne is like most of the Israeli representatives that America has come to know. London educated, Western oriented, good looking, urbane, witty; he is likable and respectable. Americans, faced with a war they are not able to win and led by men who cannot replace the image of the late President Kennedy, understandably enjoy the reassurance and hope represented by men such as Shabtai Roseanne. The Ambassador gave the audience the hope they desired. He explained that a solution of the Middle East situation was obtainable. He held that what was needed was that representatives of the nations immediately concerned that is the nations in the Middle East must sit down at a table tell each other their grips and settle the problem as they are settled in all human affairs. He told how one agreement had been reached between Israeli and Arab representable while around a billiard table. Diplomacy is most successfully handled, he states, around a table, drinking coffee, in a relaxed atmosphere. This is all very rational and made most of what else was said by the Ambassador very acceptable to the audience. He said much. A lasting settlement could not be imposed "from without by the Big Four Powers or the United Nations but must come from within - it must be made by Arabs and Israelis." Arab terrorism, taking place primarily outside of Israel itself, could only be a nuisance to Israel and presented no great strain or inconvenience. Said Ambassador Roseanne, "it is useless from a political point of view. The Big Powers should use pressure to get the Arabs to the conference table. The Soviets are to be distrusted 'because of their traditional aim of obtaining warm water Mediterranean ports.' But again and again Ambassador Rosenne shied away from discussing the international implications of the Middle East situation. 'Diplomacy,' he said, 'is not best done in Newsweek - or in the United Nations.' 'I do not know the Arabs' gripes,' Rosenne continued. 'They must sit down with us and discuss their specific complaints.' Then he claimed, conciliation could be obtained. Israel is willing to concede much: they will gladly return much of the Arab territory occupied as a result of the June War, although, the Ambassador said, "it is clear that some strategically essential areas will have to be retained by Israel." The thorny Arab refugee problem could be solved as a part of the 'total settlement.' Ambassador Rosenne is a diplomat. His concern is to settle a crisis by sitting down with the opposition and rationally working out details. The audience was impressed by the simplicity of this. But if there was reason to be impressed by the esteemed speaker, there was no reason to be reassured by him. Ambassador Rosenne mentioned Vietnam only once during the course of the evening. His statement was that for him 'it is quite improper to say anything about the American involvement in Vietnam,' because he 'doesn't understand' our involvement there well enough. It is very possible, however, that the lesson Vietnam is that 'conciliation' - that which Ambassador Rosenne most seeks - is not always possible. Americans are great believers in accommodation and conciliation. It is how we handle our labor-management disputes, how our political parties function, how social rules are changed at Bowdoin College. We have seen that conciliation can work. And we find it hard to see, therefore, that in other parts of the world there are social forces at work that may make conciliation impossible; there are certain revolutionary situations - late 18th century Frame, 20th century Vietnam - created by the social factors at work, that require revolutionary actions. It is probable that Arab world finds itself in a revolutionary situation. there will be no 'conciliation' in the Middle Easy until the structures in the Arab countries are radically different, until the forces of reaction have been dissolved by the forces of reason and progress, until the people in the Arab nations produce leaders who will unite them by something better than hatred of the Israelis. Ambassador Rosenne was able to reassure us that 'conciliation' in the Middle East is possible because he did not talk about these things. Such reassurance, though desired by the audience, may not, however, be justified. 