@TITLE=Is Nationwide SDS Moving Off Campus?
@BODY=Students for a Democratic Society at a recent National Council meeting in Ann Arbor, were divided over the value of a public demonstration - at Richard Nixon's inauguration later this month. Those in favor claimed participating in the demonstration would gain national attention for the organization and would point up the continuing illegitimacy of America's leaders. Those opposed believed it is senseless and, even worse, antagonistic to the class of people SDS wishes to attract to its cause. Those for abstinence won out; SDS as an organization will not support the inauguration protest although members are free to attend and participate. Which brings the argument around to a question of direction. SDS wants to extend its activism to the working classes, the poor, high school students and the United States Army. Programs for such an undertaking have not yet been formulated, although members abducted they would use methods involving direct contact. This means SDS would drop its opposition to the draft and, once its members were in uniform, would undermine the military structure from within. The suggestion was not warmly, received at the convention, perhaps because the penalties meted out for this kind of activism would be so severe. High school students and poor people might respond favorably to SDS, since the former are experiencing growing dissatisfaction with the system and the schools themselves are ripe for revolution. SDS already has a foothold in some New York City and California high schools. Poverty groups, discouraged with chaotic and inadequate welfare programs, have already been organizing and demonstrating for several years. The working class, an integral part of SDS slogans, could prove a harder nut to crack. Except for marginal workers in agriculture and other poor-paying light industries, organized American labor is married to the Establishment. Underlying the idea of moving off campus is the feeling that SDS people that the organization's growth was slowed down by President Johnson's peace moves. With the war in Vietnam apparently headed for some kind of solution, SDS wants to insure its future by attaching itself to a class in order to take root as a permanent political and social movement. It is an implied acceptance of revolutionary belief that students are transients within the class structure who can provide leadership for the oppressed. But does it mean the task of changing the university will fall into the hands of lesser radicals?