@TITLE=Top Stories? Look Deeper
@BODY=Time Magazine, the unflinching guardian of righteous middle-class values, has declared that the lunar orbit of Apollo astronauts was the No. 1 news story of 1968. Or at least that is the implication of Time's selection of the three "Apollonauts" as "Man of the Year." The Associated Press made the same declaration, and took it a step further. AP listed the most significant news stories of the year as 1. Apollo's lunar orbit, 2. Richard Nixon's election as President, 3. Robert F Kennedy's assassination, 4. Martin Luther King's assassination and 5. the first successful heart transplant performed by Dr. Christiaan Barnard. AP's list is interesting. Two of the top five stories concern cold-blooded acts of violence, which gave the face of 1968 an ugly and frightening contour. Two of the stories reflect the crossing of tremendous thresholds in science, one in outer space and one in medicine. And one story, of course, is about politics - which is inescapable. But it seems that the selection of individual, 'spot-news' stories misses the point. The most significant stories of the year are not one-event items but complex and long-range trends and movements. Too often newspapers and newsmagazines dwell on the microcosmic at the expense of the more significant macrocosmic. What were the most profoundly significant stories of 1968? Of course, it's hard to say - but we would offer this list instead of or supplementary to AP's list: 1. (tie) breakthroughs in 'life' studies and space exploration, 3. the drastic change in the attitude of the American Negro, 4. student turmoil and rebellion against authority, and 5. the crisis in the American legal system. Of course, casting a giant shadow across the entire list is the tragic specter of the Vietnam war - and the tragic consequences of incompetent foreign policy thinking that it unfortunately represents. Our top story concerns man at the threshold in two areas: science of life and science of the universe. On the one hand, man has learned how to transplant successfully the most vital organ of the human body. the ramifications are staggering. But in addition, he has taken a hundred steps closer to duplicating human life in the test tube. Just last month, two biologists successfully 'manufactured' carbon copies of frogs by transplanting the DNA from the body cells of one frog to the reproductive cell nucleus of another frog. Will man be able to handle the intellectual problems fostered by his technical success in the laboratory? On the other hand, man has also taken the first step in exploration of the universe - the "last frontier." Story No. 3 is perhaps the most obvious one to college students - the awakening in the American Negro of a sense of identity and racial pride, in contrast to the "me-too 'grayism'" of the mid-1950's. The growing pains involved in this dramatic switch will be frustrating, but certainly worthwhile in the long run. We are watching the realization of human dignity after years of subjugation. Our fourth story is probably the most relevant (to use a now popular cliche) to college students. Unfortunately, most of the overt manifestations of student rebellion are flagrant acts of violence and demonstration. But the real essence of this new (it wasn't manifest in the fat, happy and complacent 1950s) attitude is a skeptical, anxious social concern. It is a healthy, if tumultuous spirit: nothing is accepted at face value any more, and the monetary yardstick of success has been broken finally and replaced with a human standard. Story No. 5 is a complex and multi-faceted: the Anglo-American system of jurisprudence has grown flabby and ineffectual, probably due to intellectual ossification and procedural strangulation. For one thing, justice is too slow - and justice delayed is justice denied. For another, the poor do not get as fair a shake as the rich. And too many of our laws are out-dated and incomplete - because of technological innovation and intellectual enlightenment. Of course, the top stories of the year can't truly be confined to the space of one year: by chance they crystalized within 1968. 