@TITLE=Kindly Old Lady Exposes The Brutality of "The Automated Air War"
@BODY=Those who fondly remember the anti-war movement so popular several years ago should not have missed there slide show and discussion in Wentworth Hall last Monday night. The slide show, The Automated Air War, was presented by Chateau Chapin, a kindly old lady who enjoys the distinction of having been arrested at Snowy Beach. Mrs. Chapin is from the American Friends Society, and the slide show is a production of NARMIC - which, Mrs. Chapin decided after some deliberation, stands for National Action and research on the Military Industrial Complex. The purpose of the slide show, Mrs. Chapin noted, is to show how the current brutality of the war in Indochina is screened by automation in an attempt by Richard Nixon to make the war less visible. She explained as the program began that she would accompany the slides with a written commentary. "I have to read this thing," she maintained. "It's so much smoother that way." Two trays of slides followed, portraying American sensors for enemy detection, computer banks used to guide bombing missions, and a few bombed villages and wounded children. Interspersed throughout were hand-drawn pictures of bleeding civilians. Strangely, though we are told that there is a deliberate attempt to deceive the American public about the conduct of the war, most of Mrs. Chapin's slides are from publications such as Armed Forces Journal and Air Force Magazine, and most of her quotes are from press conferences by men such as Generals Westmoreland and Dean. The slides show convincingly that there is an attempt to replace the man with the machine, but they do not show that there is any attempt to conceal this. A picture of an American pilot comes on the screen. "He never sees his enemy," Mrs. Chapin complains in an impassioned voice. "Nixon," she continues, "just wants to silently annihilate the Vietnamese people." The slides come to an end with a prolonged condemnation of Alcoa, Westinghouse, IIT, and Honeywell for providing the government with technological means to continue the war. Discussion follows. A large fat man, knitting a sock, begins. "It's terrible. Horrible. As I say, I try to avoid reality whenever I can." A pause follows, while he devotes all his attention to the half-finished sock. "And I'm sure everyone here feels exactly as I do... But there are fifty people here. What am I doing here?" Mrs. Chapin asks what he will do when he goes home that night. Apparently stumped, he returns to silence and his sock. The discussion picks up. "We don't have representatives." "We don't demand them!" "We have to demonstrate." "We're not taking enough risks!" A girl, her innocent face contorted in anguish, looks up from the floor long enough to interject, "Young men dream dreams but old men see visions." Silence follows, and she looks back at the floor. The inevitable Vietnam veteran now takes the floor. First telling us how much he has seen of the war, he begins to expound on deeper matters. "We're an imperialistic power... We have accepted the doctrine that the end justifies the means. Is this not the basic concept of the Communist Manifesto?" A woman who has just returned from the Paris peace conference offers a quote from an Asian she met, whose name or nationality she cannot remember: "We fight because we fear death. Americans fight because they fear life." Now the question rises: What are we going to do? Do you have addresses to write to? Does anyone have a schedule of upcoming demonstrations? But that won't help. All the demonstrations fell apart because they did no good. "I beg to disagree. They got Nixon to get us out of Vietnam because he knew the American people would stand for it no longer. Now we just have to tell him to get those machines out too." "But that's so idealistic. You're just talking in abstractions." "We can change the system!" "The only thing you can change," put in a balding fat man, reclining on a couch, "is yourself." "Right," exclaimed an equally bald, overwhelmed gentleman "He's right." "So what are we going to do? What can be done?" "Maybe," began a bearded Bowdoin student, getting to the heart of it all, "what we need is a revolution, Maybe we need to kidnap Kissinger..." The American foreign aid program offers the best of our know-how and ingenuity to backward countries. Pictured above is America's contribution to North Vietnam's fall crop. 