@TITLE=Enticing Young Men
@BODY=To the Editor: the two biggest advertisements in in last week's Orient were pitches for the ROTC. They were timed to follow hard upon the draft lottery. It's a beautiful system - the draft is run like Las Vegas and the ROTC pricks up those whose birthdays lost. "Only the Best may Serve," says one ad, promising those best to do everything for them except cure bad breath. The ad was written by the guy who promised all of us males that we could be "The Hero of the Beach" in the Charles Atlas ads on the backs of Superman comic books. The ad should be amended to read "Only the Best (with low lottery numbers)". Assuming that similar ads appeared in other campus papers across the country, and assuming that those ads cost money, one must ask how much money was expended to entice young men with low lottery numbers into the ROTC?
Perhaps the amount of money would seem small in the face of an 80 million dollar "defense" budget. But it is money that will not be spent to -allow the children of poverty to attend college, money that will not be spent to make college worth attending, money that will not be assigned to the problems we must face now, problems having nothing to do with some massive threat mounted by North Vietnam, but which have a lot to do with our survival as a healthy species, problems like poverty, pollution, population, and peace. However small the amount spent on ROTC recruiting posters in campus newspapers, it is money that will never be spent to preserve and support the one life we all share. Unless we recognize that life and humanity are our single reason for existing as human beings, until we realize that life and humanity are not served by our continued rain of bombs upon the people and animals and trees of South-East Asia or by our supply of the weaponry whereby West Pakistan can annihilate its countrymen, until we become humble enough to admit that each of us is part of a process that is destructive not creative, negative and not positive, until we believe that peace, within ourselves, with each other, and with all that lives with us in our tiny world, then money will be spent to entice young men towards killing, even here on our peaceful Bowdoin campus.